D&D BEYOND will be undergoing maintenance on Jan 20th @ 1 AM Paci c for approximately 6 hours. For updates, check our Status Page at https://status.dndbeyond.com/DISMISS Our Terms of Ser vice and Priv acy Notice ha ve recently been updated t o provide gr eater clarity as t o how disputes ar e handled and tr anspar ency r egar ding the collection and use of personal data. Please r eview them her e: Terms of Ser vice, Privacy Notice . By continuing t o use the ser vices, y ou agr ee to the new Terms. SUPPOR T Help P ortal Suppor t Forum System Status Do Not Sell or Shar e My Personal Information Your Priv acy Choices Cookie Notice System Ref erence Document (SRD)ABOUT Contact Us Careers Wizar ds of the CoastFIND US ON SOCI AL MEDI A DOWNL OAD THE D&D BEY OND APP © 2017- 2026 WIZ ARDS OF THE CO AST LLC | ALL RIGH TS RESER VED Dungeons & Dr agons, D&D Be yond, D&D , Wizar ds of the Coast, the dr agon ampersand, and all other Wizar ds of the Coast pr oduct names, campaign settings, their r espectiv e logos, and The W orld's Greatest Rolepla ying Game ar e © and tr ademark Wizar ds of the Coast in the U.S.A. and other countries. © 2026 Wizar ds.PRIV ACY POLICY TERMS OF SER VICE Sear ch E verything... Rakor en91 Collections Game Rules Library Tools Media Forums Learn to Play Subscribe Marketplace CHAPTER 3: CH ARA CTER CL ASSES (CON TINUED) TABLE OF CON TENTS CHAPTER 5: FEA TS Chapter 4: Char acter Origins This chapter describes the two components of an adv entur er’s origin: back ground and species . Together , these elements suggest y our char acter ’s early experience and family origin befor e taking up the adv enturing lif e and learning the capabilities of a class (described in chapter 3 ). Origin Components Each par t of y our char acter ’s origin r eﬂects facets of y our char acter , their lif e, and the cir cumstances that star ted them on the path t o adv entur e. If you choose a back ground or a species fr om an older book, see the sidebar “ Back grounds and Species fr om Older Books ” in chapter 2 for how t o use them with the options her e. Char acter Back grounds Your char acter ’s back ground is a collection of char acteristics that r epresent the place and occupation that wer e most formativ e befor e your char acter embark ed on a lif e of adv entur e. Each back ground includes a brief narr ative of what y our char acter ’s past might ha ve been lik e. Alter the details of this narrative howe ver you lik e. Parts of a Back ground A back ground includes the following par ts. Ability Scor es. A back ground lists thr ee of y our char acter ’s ability scor es. Incr ease one b y 2 and another one b y 1, or increase all thr ee b y 1. None of these incr eases can r aise a scor e abo ve 20. Feat. A back ground giv es your char acter a speciﬁed Origin f eat (described in chapter 5 ). Skill Pr oﬁciencies. A back ground giv es your char acter pr oﬁciency in two speciﬁed skills. Tool Pr oﬁciency . Each back ground giv es a char acter pr oﬁciency with one t ool—either a speciﬁc t ool or one chosen fr om the Ar tisan ’s Tools categor y. Tools ar e detailed in chapter 6 . Equipment. Each back ground off ers a choice between a package of equipment and 50 GP . Char acter Species When y ou choose y our char acter ’s species, y ou determine whether y our char acter is a human or a member of a fantastical species, such as dr agonborn or gnome. The peoples of the D&D multiv erse hail fr om diff erent worlds and include many kinds of sapient lif e forms. A pla yer char acter ’s species is the set of game tr aits that an adv entur er gains fr om being one of those lif e forms. Some species can tr ace their origin t o a single world, plane of existence, or god, while other species ﬁrst appear ed in multiple r ealms at once. Whate ver a species’ genesis, its members ha ve spr ead acr oss the multiv erse and contribute t o many diff erent cultur es. Members of most species liv e for about 80 y ears, with ex ceptions noted in the text about the species in this chapter . Regar dless of lif e span, members of all species r each physical maturity at about the same age. Y our char acter can be any age that isn ’t be yond their species’ normal lif e span. Parts of a Species A species includes the following par ts. Creatur e Type. A char acter ’s species determines the char acter ’s creatur e type, which is described in the rules glossar y. Every species in this chapter is Humanoid; pla yable non-Humanoid species appear in other D&D books. Size. Your char acter ’s species determines the char acter ’s siz e. Individuals within a species co ver a wide r ange of heights, and some species include such div ersity of siz e that y ou can choose whether y our char acter is Small or Medium. Speed. Your char acter ’s species determines the char acter ’s Speed. Special Traits. Each species giv es a char acter special tr aits—unique char acteristics based on the species’ physiology or magical natur e. When y ou choose a species, y our char acter gets all the special tr aits listed for it. Some tr aits inv olve making a choice fr om a handful of options. Back ground Descriptions Sixteen back grounds ar e presented in this section in alphabetical or der: Acolyte Artisan Charlatan CriminalEnter tainer Farmer Guar d GuideHermit Merchant Noble SageSailor Scribe Soldier Wayfarer Acolyte Ability Scor es: Intelligence, Wisdom, Charisma Feat: Magic Initiate (Cleric) (see chapter 5 ) Skill Pr oﬁciencies: Insight and Religion Tool Pr oﬁciency: Calligr apher ’s Supplies Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Calligr apher ’s Supplies , Book (prayers), Holy Symbol , Parchment (10 sheets), Robe , 8 GP; or (B) 50 GP You de voted y ourself t o ser vice in a temple, either nestled in a t own or secluded in a sacr ed gr ove. Ther e you per formed rites in honor of a god or pantheon. Y ou ser ved under a priest and studied r eligion. Thanks t o your priest’ s instruction and y our own de votion, y ou also learned how t o channel a modicum of divine power in ser vice t o your place of worship and the people who pr ayed ther e. Artisan Ability Scor es: Strength, Dexterity , Intelligence Feat: Crafter (see chapter 5 ) Skill Pr oﬁciencies: Investigation and Persuasion Tool Pr oﬁciency: Choose one kind of Ar tisan ’s Tools (see chapter 6 ) Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Ar tisan ’s Tools (same as abo ve), 2 Pouches , Traveler’s Clothes , 32 GP; or (B) 50 GP You began mopping ﬂoors and scrubbing counters in an ar tisan ’s workshop for a f ew coppers per da y as soon as y ou were str ong enough t o carr y a buck et. When y ou wer e old enough t o appr entice, y ou learned t o create basic cr afts of your own, as well as how t o sweet-talk the occasional demanding cust omer . Your tr ade has also giv en you a k een e ye for detail. Charlatan Ability Scor es: Dexterity , Constitution, Charisma Feat: Skilled (see chapter 5 ) Skill Pr oﬁciencies: Deception and Sleight of Hand Tool Pr oﬁciency: Forgery Kit Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Forgery Kit , Costume , Fine Clothes , 15 GP; or (B) 50 GP Once y ou wer e old enough t o order an ale, y ou soon had a fa vorite st ool in e very tavern within ten miles of wher e you were born. As y ou tr aveled the cir cuit fr om public house t o watering hole, y ou learned t o prey on unfor tunates who wer e in the mark et for a comfor ting lie or two—perhaps a sham potion or for ged ancestr y recor ds. Criminal Ability Scor es: Dexterity , Constitution, Intelligence Feat: Aler t (see chapter 5 ) Skill Pr oﬁciencies: Sleight of Hand and Stealth Tool Pr oﬁciency: Thie ves’ Tools Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) 2 Daggers , Thie ves’ Tools , Crowbar , 2 Pouches , Traveler’s Clothes , 16 GP; or (B) 50 GP You ek ed out a living in dark alle yways, cutting purses or bur gling shops. P erhaps y ou wer e par t of a small gang of lik e- minded wr ongdoers who look ed out for each other . Or ma ybe y ou wer e a lone wolf, f ending for y ourself against the local thieves’ guild and mor e fearsome lawbr eakers. Enter tainer Ability Scor es: Strength, Dexterity , Charisma Feat: Musician (see chapter 5 ) Skill Pr oﬁciencies: Acrobatics and Performance Tool Pr oﬁciency: Choose one kind of Musical Instrument (see chapter 6 ) Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Musical Instrument (same as abo ve), 2 Costumes , Mirror, Perfume , Traveler’s Clothes , 11 GP; or (B) 50 GP You spent much of y our y outh following r oving fairs and carniv als, per forming odd jobs for musicians and acr obats in exchange for lessons. Y ou ma y have learned how t o walk a tightr ope, how t o pla y a lute in a distinct style, or how t o recite poetr y with impeccable diction. To this da y, you thriv e on applause and long for the stage. Farmer Ability Scor es: Strength, Constitution, Wisdom Feat: Tough (see chapter 5 ) Skill Pr oﬁciencies: Animal Handling and Natur e Tool Pr oﬁciency: Carpenter ’s Tools Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Sickle , Carpenter ’s Tools , Healer ’s Kit , Iron P ot, Shovel, Traveler’s Clothes , 30 GP; or (B) 50 GP You gr ew up close t o the land. Y ears tending animals and cultiv ating the ear th rewar ded y ou with patience and good health. Y ou ha ve a k een appr eciation for natur e’s bounty alongside a healthy r espect for natur e’s wrath. Guar d Ability Scor es: Strength, Intelligence, Wisdom Feat: Aler t (see chapter 5 ) Skill Pr oﬁciencies: Athletics and Perception Tool Pr oﬁciency: Choose one kind of Gaming Set (see chapter 6 ) Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Spear , Light Cr ossbow , 20 Bolts , Gaming Set (same as abo ve), Hooded Lantern , Manacles , Quiv er, Traveler’s Clothes , 12 GP; or (B) 50 GP Your f eet ache when y ou remember the countless hours y ou spent at y our post in the t ower . You wer e trained t o keep one e ye looking outside the wall, watching for mar auders sweeping fr om the nearb y for est, and y our other e ye looking inside the wall, sear ching for cutpurses and tr oublemak ers. Guide Ability Scor es: Dexterity , Constitution, Wisdom Feat: Magic Initiate (Druid) (see chapter 5 ) Skill Pr oﬁciencies: Stealth and Survival Tool Pr oﬁciency: Cartographer ’s Tools Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Shor tbow , 20 Arrows, Cartographer ’s Tools , Bedr oll, Quiv er, Tent, Traveler’s Clothes , 3 GP; or (B) 50 GP You came of age outdoors, far fr om settled lands. Y our home was anywher e you chose t o spr ead y our bedr oll. Ther e are wonders in the wilderness—str ange monsters, pristine for ests and str eams, o vergrown ruins of gr eat halls once tr od b y giants—and y ou learned t o fend for y ourself as y ou explor ed them. F rom time t o time, y ou guided friendly natur e priests who instructed y ou in the fundamentals of channeling the magic of the wild. Hermit Ability Scor es: Constitution, Wisdom, Charisma Feat: Healer (see chapter 5 ) Skill Pr oﬁciencies: Medicine and Religion Tool Pr oﬁciency: Herbalism Kit Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Quar terstaff , Herbalism Kit , Bedr oll, Book (philosophy), Lamp , Oil (3 ﬂasks), Traveler’s Clothes , 16 GP; or (B) 50 GP You spent y our early y ears secluded in a hut or monaster y located well be yond the outskir ts of the near est settlement. In those da ys, y our only companions wer e the cr eatur es of the for est and those who would occasionally visit t o bring news of the outside world and supplies. The solitude allowed y ou to spend many hours pondering the mysteries of creation. Merchant Ability Scor es: Constitution, Intelligence, Charisma Feat: Lucky (see chapter 5 ) Skill Pr oﬁciencies: Animal Handling and Persuasion Tool Pr oﬁciency: Navigat or’s Tools Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Navigat or’s Tools , 2 Pouches , Traveler’s Clothes , 22 GP; or (B) 50 GP You wer e appr enticed t o a tr ader , caravan master , or shopk eeper , learning the fundamentals of commer ce. Y ou tr aveled broadly , and y ou earned a living b y buying and selling the r aw materials ar tisans need t o practice their cr aft or ﬁnished works fr om such cr afters. Y ou might ha ve transpor ted goods fr om one place t o another (b y ship, wagon, or car avan) or bought them fr om tr aveling tr aders and sold them in y our own shop. Noble Ability Scor es: Strength, Intelligence, Charisma Feat: Skilled (see chapter 5 ) Skill Pr oﬁciencies: History and Persuasion Tool Pr oﬁciency: Choose one kind of Gaming Set (see chapter 6 ) Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Gaming Set (same as abo ve), Fine Clothes , Perfume , 29 GP; or (B) 50 GP You wer e raised in a castle, surr ounded b y wealth, power , and privilege. Y our family of minor arist ocrats ensur ed that you receiv ed a ﬁrst-class education, some of which y ou appr eciated and some of which y ou resented. Y our time in the castle, especially the many hours y ou spent obser ving y our family at cour t, also taught y ou a gr eat deal about leadership. Sage Ability Scor es: Constitution, Intelligence, Wisdom Feat: Magic Initiate ( Wizar d) (see chapter 5 ) Skill Pr oﬁciencies: Arcana and History Tool Pr oﬁciency: Calligr apher ’s Supplies Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Quar terstaff , Calligr apher ’s Supplies , Book (hist ory), Parchment (8 sheets), Robe , 8 GP; or (B) 50 GP You spent y our formativ e years tr aveling between manors and monasteries, per forming v arious odd jobs and ser vices in exchange for access t o their libr aries. Y ou whiled awa y many a long e vening studying books and scr olls, learning the lore of the multiv erse—e ven the rudiments of magic—and y our mind y earns for mor e. Sailor Ability Scor es: Strength, Dexterity , Wisdom Feat: Tavern Br awler (see chapter 5 ) Skill Pr oﬁciencies: Acrobatics and Perception Tool Pr oﬁciency: Navigat or’s Tools Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Dagger , Navigat or’s Tools , Rope , Traveler’s Clothes , 20 GP; or (B) 50 GP You liv ed as a seafar er, wind at y our back and decks swa ying beneath y our f eet. Y ou’ve per ched on barst ools in mor e ports of call than y ou can r emember , faced mighty st orms, and swapped st ories with folk who liv e beneath the wa ves. Scribe Ability Scor es: Dexterity , Intelligence, Wisdom Feat: Skilled (see chapter 5 ) Skill Pr oﬁciencies: Investigation and Perception Tool Pr oﬁciency: Calligr apher ’s Supplies Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Calligr apher ’s Supplies , Fine Clothes , Lamp , Oil (3 ﬂasks), Parchment (12 sheets), 23 GP; or (B) 50 GP You spent formativ e years in a script orium, a monaster y dedicated t o the pr eser vation of knowledge, or a go vernment agency , wher e you learned t o write with a clear hand and pr oduce ﬁnely written texts. P erhaps y ou scribed go vernment documents or copied t omes of liter ature. You might ha ve some skill as a writer of poetr y, narr ative, or scholarly resear ch. Abo ve all, y ou ha ve a car eful attention t o detail, helping y ou a void intr oducing mistak es to the documents y ou copy and cr eate. Soldier Ability Scor es: Strength, Dexterity , Constitution Feat: Savage A ttack er (see chapter 5 ) Skill Pr oﬁciencies: Athletics and Intimidation Tool Pr oﬁciency: Choose one kind of Gaming Set (see chapter 6 ) Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Spear , Shor tbow , 20 Arrows, Gaming Set (same as abo ve), Healer ’s Kit , Quiv er, Traveler’s Clothes , 14 GP; or (B) 50 GP You began tr aining for war as soon as y ou reached adulthood and carr y precious f ew memories of lif e befor e you took up arms. Battle is in y our blood. Sometimes y ou catch y ourself r eﬂexiv ely per forming the basic ﬁghting ex ercises y ou learned ﬁrst. E ventually , you put that tr aining t o use on the battleﬁeld, pr otecting the r ealm b y waging war . Wayfarer Ability Scor es: Dexterity , Wisdom, Charisma Feat: Lucky (see chapter 5 ) Skill Pr oﬁciencies: Insight and Stealth Tool Pr oﬁciency: Thie ves’ Tools Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) 2 Daggers , Thie ves’ Tools , Gaming Set (any), Bedr oll, 2 Pouches , Traveler’s Clothes , 16 GP; or (B) 50 GP You gr ew up on the str eets surr ounded b y similarly ill-fated cast offs, a f ew of them friends and a f ew of them riv als. Y ou slept wher e you could and did odd jobs for food. A t times, when the hunger became unbear able, y ou resor ted t o theft. Still, y ou ne ver lost y our pride and ne ver abandoned hope. F ate is not y et ﬁnished with y ou. Species Descriptions Ten species ar e presented in this section in alphabetical or der: Aasimar , Dragonborn , Dwar f, Elf, Gnome , Goliath , Halﬂing , Human , Orc, and Tieﬂing . Aasimar Aasimar (pr onounced AH-sih-mar) ar e mor tals who carr y a spark of the Upper Planes within their souls. Whether descended fr om an angelic being or infused with celestial power , they can fan that spark t o bring light, healing, and heavenly fur y. Aasimar can arise among any population of mor tals. They resemble their par ents, but the y live for up t o 160 y ears and have featur es that hint at their celestial heritage, such as metallic fr eckles, luminous e yes, a halo, or the skin color of an angel (silv er, opalescent gr een, or copper y red). These f eatur es star t subtle and become ob vious when the aasimar learns t o reveal their full celestial natur e. Aasimar Traits Creatur e Type: Humanoid Size: Medium (about 4–7 f eet tall) or Small (about 2–4 f eet tall), chosen when y ou select this species Speed: 30 f eet As an Aasimar , you ha ve these special tr aits. Celestial Resistance. You ha ve Resistance t o Necr otic damage and Radiant damage. Darkvision. You ha ve Darkvision with a r ange of 60 f eet. Healing Hands. As a Magic action, y ou touch a cr eatur e and r oll a number of d4s equal t o your Pr oﬁciency Bonus. The creatur e regains a number of Hit P oints equal t o the t otal r olled. Once y ou use this tr ait, y ou can ’t use it again until y ou ﬁnish a Long Rest . Light Bear er. You know the Light cantrip. Charisma is y our spellcasting ability for it. Celestial Re velation. When y ou reach char acter le vel 3, y ou can tr ansform as a Bonus Action using one of the options below (choose the option each time y ou tr ansform). The tr ansformation lasts for 1 minute or until y ou end it (no action requir ed). Once y ou tr ansform, y ou can ’t do so again until y ou ﬁnish a Long Rest . Once on each of y our turns befor e the tr ansformation ends, y ou can deal extr a damage t o one tar get when y ou deal damage t o it with an attack or a spell. The extr a damage equals y our Pr oﬁciency Bonus, and the extr a damage ’s type is either Necr otic for Necr otic Shr oud or Radiant for Hea venly Wings and Inner Radiance. Here are the tr ansformation options: Heavenly Wings. Two spectr al wings spr out fr om y our back tempor arily. Until the tr ansformation ends, y ou ha ve a Fly Speed equal t o your Speed. Inner Radiance. Searing light tempor arily r adiates fr om y our e yes and mouth. F or the dur ation, y ou shed Bright Light in a 10-foot r adius and Dim Light for an additional 10 f eet, and at the end of each of y our turns, each cr eatur e within 10 feet of y ou tak es Radiant damage equal t o your Pr oﬁciency Bonus. Necr otic Shr oud. Your e yes brieﬂy become pools of darkness, and ﬂightless wings spr out fr om y our back tempor arily. Creatur es other than y our allies within 10 f eet of y ou must succeed on a Charisma sa ving thr ow (DC 8 plus y our Charisma modiﬁer and Pr oﬁciency Bonus) or ha ve the F rightened condition until the end of y our next turn. Dragonborn The ancest ors of dr agonborn hatched fr om the eggs of chr omatic and metallic dr agons. One st ory holds that these eggs wer e blessed b y the dr agon gods Bahamut and Tiamat, who wanted t o populate the multiv erse with people created in their image. Another st ory claims that dr agons cr eated the ﬁrst dr agonborn without the gods’ blessings. Whate ver their origin, dr agonborn ha ve made homes for themselv es on the Material Plane. Dragonborn look lik e wingless, bipedal dr agons—scaly , bright-e yed, and thick-boned with horns on their heads—and their color ation and other f eatur es ar e reminiscent of their dr aconic ancest ors. Dragonborn Traits Creatur e Type: Humanoid Size: Medium (about 5–7 f eet tall) Speed: 30 f eet As a Dr agonborn, y ou ha ve these special tr aits. Draconic A ncestr y. Your lineage stems fr om a dr agon pr ogenit or. Choose the kind of dr agon fr om the Dr aconic Ancest ors table. Y our choice aff ects y our Br eath W eapon and Damage Resistance tr aits as well as y our appear ance. Draconic A ncest ors Dragon Damage Type Black Acid Blue Lightning Brass Fire Bronze Lightning Copper Acid Gold Fire Green Poison Red Fire Silver Cold White Cold Breath W eapon. When y ou tak e the Attack action on y our turn, y ou can r eplace one of y our attacks with an exhalation of magical ener gy in either a 15-foot Cone or a 30-foot Line that is 5 f eet wide (choose the shape each time). Each cr eatur e in that ar ea must mak e a Dexterity sa ving thr ow (DC 8 plus y our Constitution modiﬁer and Pr oﬁciency Bonus). On a failed sa ve, a cr eatur e tak es 1d10 damage of the type determined b y your Dr aconic Ancestr y trait. On a successful sa ve, a creatur e tak es half as much damage. This damage incr eases b y 1d10 when y ou reach char acter le vels 5 (2d10), 11 (3d10), and 17 (4d10). Y ou can use this Br eath W eapon a number of times equal t o your Pr oﬁciency Bonus, and y ou regain all expended uses when y ou ﬁnish a Long Rest . Damage Resistance. You ha ve Resistance t o the damage type determined b y your Dr aconic Ancestr y trait. Darkvision. You ha ve Darkvision with a r ange of 60 f eet. Draconic Flight. When y ou reach char acter le vel 5, y ou can channel dr aconic magic t o giv e yourself tempor ary ﬂight. As a Bonus Action, y ou spr out spectr al wings on y our back that last for 10 minutes or until y ou retract the wings (no action requir ed) or ha ve the Incapacitated condition. During that time, y ou ha ve a Fly Speed equal t o your Speed. Y our wings appear t o be made of the same ener gy as y our Br eath W eapon. Once y ou use this tr ait, y ou can ’t use it again until y ou ﬁnish a Long Rest . Dwar f Dwar ves wer e raised fr om the ear th in the elder da ys by a deity of the for ge. Called b y various names on diff erent worlds —Mor adin, Reorx, and others—that god ga ve dwar ves an aﬃnity for st one and metal and for living under ground. The god also made them r esilient lik e the mountains, with a lif e span of about 350 y ears. Squat and often bear ded, the original dwar ves car ved cities and str ongholds int o mountainsides and under the ear th. Their oldest legends tell of conﬂicts with the monsters of mountaint ops and the Under dark, whether those monsters were towering giants or subterr anean horr ors. Inspir ed b y those tales, dwar ves of any cultur e often sing of v alorous deeds—especially of the little o vercoming the mighty . On some worlds in the multiv erse, the ﬁrst settlements of dwar ves wer e built in hills or mountains, and the families who trace their ancestr y to those settlements call themselv es hill dwar ves or mountain dwar ves, respectiv ely. The Gr eyhawk and Dr agonlance settings ha ve such communities. Dwar f Traits Creatur e Type: Humanoid Size: Medium (about 4–5 f eet tall) Speed: 30 f eet As a Dwar f, you ha ve these special tr aits. Darkvision. You ha ve Darkvision with a r ange of 120 f eet. Dwar ven Resilience. You ha ve Resistance t o Poison damage. Y ou also ha ve Advantage on sa ving thr ows y ou mak e to avoid or end the P oisoned condition. Dwar ven Toughness. Your Hit P oint maximum incr eases b y 1, and it incr eases b y 1 again whene ver you gain a le vel. Stonecunning. As a Bonus Action, y ou gain T r emorsense with a r ange of 60 f eet for 10 minutes. Y ou must be on a st one surface or t ouching a st one sur face t o use this Tremorsense. The st one can be natur al or work ed. Y ou can use this Bonus Action a number of times equal t o your Pr oﬁciency Bonus, and y ou regain all expended uses when y ou ﬁnish a Long Rest . Elf Created b y the god Cor ellon, the ﬁrst elv es could change their forms at will. They lost this ability when Cor ellon cursed them for plotting with the deity Lolth, who tried and failed t o usurp Cor ellon ’s dominion. When Lolth was cast int o the Abyss, most elv es renounced her and earned Cor ellon ’s for giveness, but that which Cor ellon had tak en fr om them was lost for ever. No longer able t o shape-shift at will, the elv es retreated t o the F eywild, wher e their sorr ow was deepened b y that plane ’s inﬂuence. Ov er time, curiosity led many of them t o explor e other planes of existence, including worlds in the Material Plane. Elves ha ve pointed ears and lack facial and body hair . They live for ar ound 750 y ears, and the y don ’t sleep but instead enter a tr ance when the y need t o rest. In that state, the y remain awar e of their surr oundings while immersing themselv es in memories and meditations. An envir onment subtly tr ansforms elv es after the y inhabit it for a millennium or mor e, and it gr ants them cer tain kinds of magic. Dr ow, high elv es, and wood elv es ar e examples of elv es who ha ve been tr ansformed thus. Drow Drow typically dwell in the Under dark and ha ve been shaped b y it. Some dr ow individuals and societies a void the Under dark alt ogether y et carr y its magic. In the Eberr on setting, for example, dr ow dwell in r ainfor ests and cy clopean ruins on the continent of X en’drik. High Elv es High elv es ha ve been infused with the magic of cr ossings between the F eywild and the Material Plane. On some worlds, high elv es refer to themselv es by other names. F or example, the y call themselv es sun or moon elv es in the F orgotten Realms setting, Silv anesti and Qualinesti in the Dr agonlance setting, and Aer eni in the Eberr on setting. Wood Elv es Wood elv es carr y the magic of prime val for ests within themselv es. They are known b y many other names, including wild elves, gr een elv es, and for est elv es. Grugach ar e reclusiv e wood elv es of the Gr eyhawk setting, while the Kagonesti and the Tairnadal ar e wood elv es of the Dr agonlance and Eberr on settings, r espectiv ely. Elf Traits Creatur e Type: Humanoid Size: Medium (about 5–6 f eet tall) Speed: 30 f eet As an Elf, y ou ha ve these special tr aits. Darkvision. You ha ve Darkvision with a r ange of 60 f eet. Elven Lineage. You ar e par t of a lineage that gr ants y ou supernatur al abilities. Choose a lineage fr om the Elven Lineages table . You gain the le vel 1 beneﬁt of that lineage. When y ou reach char acter le vels 3 and 5, y ou learn a higher-le vel spell, as shown on the table. Y ou alwa ys ha ve that spell prepar ed. Y ou can cast it once without a spell slot, and y ou regain the ability t o cast it in that wa y when y ou ﬁnish a Long Rest . You can also cast the spell using any spell slots y ou ha ve of the appr opriate le vel. Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is y our spellcasting ability for the spells y ou cast with this tr ait (choose the ability when y ou select the lineage). Fey Ancestr y. You ha ve Advantage on sa ving thr ows y ou mak e to avoid or end the Charmed condition. Keen Senses. You ha ve proﬁciency in the Insight , Perception , or Survival skill. Trance. You don ’t need t o sleep, and magic can ’t put y ou to sleep. Y ou can ﬁnish a Long Rest in 4 hours if y ou spend those hours in a tr ancelik e meditation, during which y ou retain consciousness. Elven Lineages Lineage Level 1 Level 3 Level 5 DrowThe r ange of y our Darkvision incr eases t o 120 f eet. Y ou also know the Dancing Lights cantrip.Faerie Fir e Darkness High ElfYou know the Prestidigitation cantrip. Whene ver you ﬁnish a Long Rest , you can r eplace that cantrip with a diff erent cantrip from the Wizar d spell list .Detect Magic Misty Step Wood ElfYour Speed incr eases t o 35 f eet. Y ou also know the Druidcr aft cantrip.Longstrider Pass without Trace Gnome Gnomes ar e magical folk cr eated b y gods of inv ention, illusions, and lif e under ground. The earliest gnomes wer e seldom seen b y other folk due t o the gnomes’ secr etive natur e and their pr opensity for living in for ests and burr ows. What the y lacked in siz e, the y made up for in cle verness. They confounded pr edat ors with tr aps and lab yrinthine tunnels. They also learned magic fr om gods lik e Garl Glitter gold, Baer van Wildwander er, and Bar avar Cloakshadow , who visited them in disguise. That magic e ventually cr eated the lineages of for est gnomes and r ock gnomes. Gnomes ar e petite folk with big e yes and pointed ears, who liv e around 425 y ears. Many gnomes lik e the f eeling of a roof o ver their head, e ven if that “r oof” is nothing mor e than a hat. Gnome Traits Creatur e Type: Humanoid Size: Small (about 3–4 f eet tall) Speed: 30 f eet As a Gnome, y ou ha ve these special tr aits. Darkvision. You ha ve Darkvision with a r ange of 60 f eet. Gnomish Cunning. You ha ve Advantage on Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma sa ving thr ows. Gnomish Lineage. You ar e par t of a lineage that gr ants y ou supernatur al abilities. Choose one of the following options; whiche ver one y ou choose, Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is y our spellcasting ability for the spells y ou cast with this trait (choose the ability when y ou select the lineage): Forest Gnome. You know the Minor Illusion cantrip. Y ou also alwa ys ha ve the Speak with A nimals spell pr epar ed. Y ou can cast it without a spell slot a number of times equal t o your Pr oﬁciency Bonus, and y ou regain all expended uses when y ou ﬁnish a Long Rest . You can also use any spell slots y ou ha ve to cast the spell. Rock Gnome. You know the Mending and Prestidigitation cantrips. In addition, y ou can spend 10 minutes casting Prestidigitation to create a Tiny clockwork de vice (A C 5, 1 HP), such as a t oy, ﬁre star ter, or music bo x. When y ou create the de vice, y ou determine its function b y choosing one eff ect fr om Prestidigitation ; the de vice pr oduces that effect whene ver you or another cr eatur e tak es a Bonus Action t o activ ate it with a t ouch. If the chosen eff ect has options within it, y ou choose one of those options for the de vice when y ou cr eate it. F or example, if y ou choose the spell’ s ignite-extinguish eff ect, y ou determine whether the de vice ignites or extinguishes ﬁr e; the de vice doesn ’t do both. Y ou can ha ve thr ee such de vices in existence at a time, and each falls apar t 8 hours after its cr eation or when you dismantle it with a t ouch as a Utiliz e action. Goliath Towering o ver most folk, goliaths ar e distant descendants of giants. Each goliath bears the fa vors of the ﬁrst giants— favors that manif est in v arious supernatur al boons, including the ability t o quickly gr ow and tempor arily appr oach the height of goliaths’ gigantic kin. Goliaths ha ve physical char acteristics that ar e reminiscent of the giants in their family lines. F or example, some goliaths look lik e stone giants, while others r esemble ﬁr e giants. Whate ver giants the y count as kin, goliaths ha ve for ged their own path in the multiv erse—unencumber ed b y the internecine conﬂicts that ha ve ravaged giantkind for ages—and seek heights abo ve those r eached b y their ancest ors. Goliath Traits Creatur e Type: Humanoid Size: Medium (about 7–8 f eet tall) Speed: 35 f eet As a Goliath, y ou ha ve these special tr aits. Giant A ncestr y. You ar e descended fr om Giants. Choose one of the following beneﬁts—a supernatur al boon fr om y our ancestr y; you can use the chosen beneﬁt a number of times equal t o your Pr oﬁciency Bonus, and y ou regain all expended uses when y ou ﬁnish a Long Rest : Cloud’ s Jaunt (Cloud Giant). As a Bonus Action, y ou magically telepor t up t o 30 f eet t o an unoccupied space y ou can see. Fire’s Burn (Fir e Giant). When y ou hit a tar get with an attack r oll and deal damage t o it, y ou can also deal 1d10 Fir e damage t o that tar get. Frost’s Chill (F rost Giant). When y ou hit a tar get with an attack r oll and deal damage t o it, y ou can also deal 1d6 Cold damage t o that tar get and r educe its Speed b y 10 f eet until the star t of y our next turn. Hill’s Tumble (Hill Giant). When y ou hit a Lar ge or smaller cr eatur e with an attack r oll and deal damage t o it, y ou can give that tar get the Pr one condition. Stone’s Endur ance (St one Giant). When y ou tak e damage, y ou can tak e a Reaction t o roll 1d12. Add y our Constitution modiﬁer t o the number r olled and r educe the damage b y that t otal. Storm’s Thunder (St orm Giant). When y ou tak e damage fr om a cr eatur e within 60 f eet of y ou, y ou can tak e a Reaction to deal 1d8 Thunder damage t o that cr eatur e. Large F orm. Star ting at char acter le vel 5, y ou can change y our siz e to Lar ge as a Bonus Action if y ou’re in a big enough space. This tr ansformation lasts for 10 minutes or until y ou end it (no action r equir ed). F or that dur ation, y ou ha ve Advantage on Str ength checks, and y our Speed incr eases b y 10 f eet. Once y ou use this tr ait, y ou can ’t use it again until you ﬁnish a Long Rest . Power ful Build. You ha ve Advantage on any ability check y ou mak e to end the Gr appled condition. Y ou also count as one siz e lar ger when determining y our carr ying capacity . Halﬂing Cherished and guided b y gods who v alue lif e, home, and hear th, halﬂings gr avitate t owar d bucolic ha vens wher e family and community help shape their liv es. That said, many halﬂings possess a br ave and adv entur ous spirit that leads them on journe ys of disco very, affor ding them the chance t o explor e a bigger world and mak e new friends along the wa y. Their siz e—similar t o that of a human child—helps them pass thr ough cr owds unnoticed and slip thr ough tight spaces. Anyone who has spent time ar ound halﬂings, par ticularly halﬂing adv entur ers, has lik ely witnessed the st oried “luck of the halﬂings” in action. When a halﬂing is in mor tal danger , an unseen for ce seems t o inter vene on the halﬂing’ s behalf. Many halﬂings belie ve in the power of luck, and the y attribute their unusual gift t o one or mor e of their bene volent gods, including Y ondalla, Br andobaris, and Charmalaine. The same gift might contribute t o their r obust lif e spans (about 150 years). Halﬂing communities come in all v arieties. F or every sequester ed shir e tuck ed awa y in an unspoiled par t of the world, there’s a crime syndicate lik e the Bor omar Clan in the Eberr on setting or a territ orial mob of halﬂings lik e those in the Dark Sun setting. Halﬂings who pr efer to live under ground ar e sometimes called str onghear t halﬂings or st outs. Nomadic halﬂings, as well as those who liv e among humans and other tall folk, ar e sometimes called lightfoot halﬂings or tallf ellows. Halﬂing Traits Creatur e Type: Humanoid Size: Small (about 2–3 f eet tall) Speed: 30 f eet As a Halﬂing, y ou ha ve these special tr aits. Brave. You ha ve Advantage on sa ving thr ows y ou mak e to avoid or end the F rightened condition. Halﬂing Nimbleness. You can mo ve thr ough the space of any cr eatur e that is a siz e lar ger than y ou, but y ou can ’t stop in the same space. Luck. When y ou roll a 1 on the d20 of a D20 Test, you can r eroll the die, and y ou must use the new r oll. Natur ally Stealthy . You can tak e the Hide action e ven when y ou ar e obscur ed only b y a cr eatur e that is at least one siz e larger than y ou. Human Found thr oughout the multiv erse, humans ar e as v aried as the y are numer ous, and the y endea vor to achie ve as much as they can in the y ears the y are giv en. Their ambition and r esour cefulness ar e commended, r espected, and f eared on many worlds. Humans ar e as div erse in appear ance as the people of Ear th, and the y have many gods. Scholars dispute the origin of humanity , but one of the earliest known human gatherings is said t o ha ve occurr ed in Sigil, the t orus-shaped city at the center of the multiv erse and the place wher e the Common language was born. F rom ther e, humans could ha ve spr ead to every par t of the multiv erse, bringing the City of Doors’ cosmopolitanism with them. Human Traits Creatur e Type: Humanoid Size: Medium (about 4–7 f eet tall) or Small (about 2–4 f eet tall), chosen when y ou select this species Speed: 30 f eet As a Human, y ou ha ve these special tr aits. Resour ceful. You gain Heroic Inspir ation whene ver you ﬁnish a Long Rest . Skillful. You gain pr oﬁciency in one skill of y our choice. Versatile. You gain an Origin f eat of y our choice (see chapter 5 ). Skilled is recommended. Orc Orcs tr ace their cr eation t o Gruumsh, a power ful god who r oamed the wide open spaces of the Material Plane. Gruumsh equipped his childr en with gifts t o help them wander gr eat plains, v ast ca verns, and churning seas and t o face the monsters that lurk ther e. Even when the y turn their de votion t o other gods, or cs retain Gruumsh ’s gifts: endur ance, determination, and the ability t o see in darkness. Orcs ar e, on a verage, tall and br oad. They have gray skin, ears that ar e sharply pointed, and pr ominent lower canines that resemble small tusks. Or c youths on some worlds ar e told about their ancest ors’ gr eat tr avels and tr avails. Inspir ed b y those tales, many of those or cs wonder when Gruumsh will call on them t o match the her oic deeds of old and if the y will prove wor thy of his fa vor. Other or cs ar e happ y to lea ve old tales in the past and ﬁnd their own wa y. Orc Traits Creatur e Type: Humanoid Size: Medium (about 6–7 f eet tall) Speed: 30 f eet As an Or c, you ha ve these special tr aits. Adrenaline Rush. You can tak e the Dash action as a Bonus Action. When y ou do so, y ou gain a number of Tempor ary Hit Points equal t o your Pr oﬁciency Bonus. Y ou can use this tr ait a number of times equal t o your Pr oﬁciency Bonus, and you regain all expended uses when y ou ﬁnish a Shor t or Long Rest . Darkvision. You ha ve Darkvision with a r ange of 120 f eet. Relentless Endur ance. When y ou ar e reduced t o 0 Hit P oints but not killed outright, y ou can dr op to 1 Hit P oint instead. Once y ou use this tr ait, y ou can ’t do so again until y ou ﬁnish a Long Rest . Tieﬂing Tieﬂings ar e either born in the Lower Planes or ha ve ﬁendish ancest ors who originated ther e. A tieﬂing (pr onounced TEE-ﬂing) is link ed b y blood t o a de vil, a demon, or some other Fiend. This connection t o the Lower Planes is the tieﬂing’ s ﬁendish legacy , which comes with the pr omise of power y et has no eff ect on the tieﬂing’ s mor al outlook. A tieﬂing chooses whether t o embr ace or lament their ﬁendish legacy . The thr ee legacies ar e described below . Abyssal The entr opy of the Ab yss, the chaos of P andemonium, and the despair of Car ceri call t o tieﬂings who ha ve the ab yssal legacy . Horns, fur , tusks, and peculiar scents ar e common physical f eatur es of such tieﬂings, most of whom ha ve the blood of demons coursing thr ough their v eins. Chthonic Tieﬂings who ha ve the chthonic legacy f eel not only the tug of Car ceri but also the gr eed of Gehenna and the gloom of Hades. Some of these tieﬂings look cada verous. Others possess the unear thly beauty of a succubus, or the y have physical f eatur es in common with a night hag, a yugoloth, or some other Neutr al Evil ﬁendish ancest or. Infernal The inf ernal legacy connects tieﬂings not only t o Gehenna but also the Nine Hells and the r aging battleﬁelds of Acher on. Horns, spines, tails, golden e yes, and a faint odor of sulfur or smok e are common physical f eatur es of such tieﬂings, most of whom tr ace their ancestr y to de vils. Tieﬂing Traits Creatur e Type: Humanoid Size: Medium (about 4–7 f eet tall) or Small (about 3–4 f eet tall), chosen when y ou select this species Speed: 30 f eet As a Tieﬂing, y ou ha ve the following special tr aits. Darkvision. You ha ve Darkvision with a r ange of 60 f eet. Fiendish Legacy . You ar e the r ecipient of a legacy that gr ants y ou supernatur al abilities. Choose a legacy fr om the Fiendish Legacies table. Y ou gain the le vel 1 beneﬁt of the chosen legacy . When y ou reach char acter le vels 3 and 5, y ou learn a higher-le vel spell, as shown on the table. Y ou alwa ys ha ve that spell pr epar ed. Y ou can cast it once without a spell slot, and y ou regain the ability t o cast it in that wa y when y ou ﬁnish a Long Rest . You can also cast the spell using any spell slots y ou ha ve of the appr opriate le vel. Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spellcasting ability for the spells y ou cast with this tr ait (choose the ability when y ou select the legacy). Other worldly Pr esence. You know the Thaumatur gy cantrip. When y ou cast it with this tr ait, the spell uses the same spellcasting ability y ou use for y our Fiendish Legacy tr ait. Fiendish Legacies Legacy Level 1 Level 3 Level 5 AbyssalYou ha ve Resistance t o Poison damage. Y ou also know the Poison Spray cantrip.Ray of SicknessHold P erson ChthonicYou ha ve Resistance t o Necr otic damage. Y ou also know the Chill Touch cantrip.False Lif eRay of Enfeeblement InfernalYou ha ve Resistance t o Fire damage. Y ou also know the Fire Bolt cantrip.Hellish Rebuk eDarkness NOT EVEN A WHI TE DRA GON’S WRA TH CAN CHILL THESE HEROES OF THE FORGO TTEN REALMS: L AERAL SIL VERH AND , DRIZZT DO’URDEN, AND V AJRA SAF AHRARTIST: CHRIS RALLIS ARTIST: TITUS L UNTER ARTIST: LUCA BANCONE ARTIST: LUCA BANCONE ARTIST: NOOR RAHM AN ARTIST: KENN Y VO ARTIST: KENN Y VO ARTIST: NOOR RAHM AN ARTIST: EREL M AATITA ARTIST: PEDRO CARDOSO ARTIST: KAMIL A SZUTENBERG ARTIST: NOOR RAHM AN ARTIST: LIXIN YIN ARTIST: NOOR RAHM AN ARTIST: KAMIL A SZUTENBERG ARTIST: FABIÀ SANS ARTIST: JON AS DE RO ARTIST: ALDO DOMINGUEZ ARTIST: DAVID A UDEN N ASH ARTIST: MIKE P APE ARTIST: MIKE P APE A SHIP DEP ARTS FROM A CI TY BUIL T BY HIGH EL VESARTIST: JEDD CHEVRIER ARTIST: ERIC BELISLE ARTIST: HINCHEL OR ARTIST: JANE KA TSUBO ARTIST: ZUZ ANN A WUZYK ARTIST: WAYNE ENGL AND ARTIST: MIKE P APE ARTIST: CLIN T CEARLEY INFERN AL TIEFLING, CH THONIC TIEFLING, AB YSSAL TIEFLINGARTIST: JOHN GRELL O ARTIST: JODIE MUIRPREV CH APTER NEXT CHAPTER Chapter 4: Char acter Origins Origin Components Char acter Back grounds Char acter Species Back ground Descriptions Species Descriptions SOURCES DUNGEONS & DRA GONS PLAYER’S H ANDBOOK CHARA CTER ORIGINS