D&D BEYOND will be undergoing maintenance on Jan 20th @ 1 AM Pacic for approximately 6 hours. For updates, check our Status Page at https://status.dndbeyond.com/DISMISS Our Terms of Ser vice and Priv acy Notice ha ve recently been updated t o provide gr eater clarity as t o how disputes ar e handled and tr anspar ency r egar ding the collection and use of personal data. Please r eview them her e: Terms of Ser vice, Privacy Notice . By continuing t o use the ser vices, y ou agr ee to the new Terms. SUPPOR T Help P ortal Suppor t Forum System Status Do Not Sell or Shar e My Personal Information Your Priv acy Choices Cookie Notice System Ref erence Document (SRD)ABOUT Contact Us Careers Wizar ds of the CoastFIND US ON SOCI AL MEDI A DOWNL OAD THE D&D BEY OND APP  2017- 2026 WIZ ARDS OF THE CO AST LLC | ALL RIGH TS RESER VED Dungeons & Dr agons, D&D Be yond, D&D , Wizar ds of the Coast, the dr agon ampersand, and all other Wizar ds of the Coast pr oduct names, campaign settings, their r espectiv e logos, and The W orld's Greatest Rolepla ying Game ar e  and tr ademark Wizar ds of the Coast in the U.S.A. and other countries.  2026 Wizar ds.PRIV ACY POLICY TERMS OF SER VICE Sear ch E verything... Rakor en91 Collections Game Rules Library Tools Media Forums Learn to Play Subscribe Marketplace CH. 5: FEA TS TABLE OF CON TENTS CH. 7: SPELLS Chapter 6: E quipment The right equipment can mak e the diff erence between success and failur e for adv entur ers. This chapter pr ovides rules and prices for weapons, armor , and other kinds of equipment that char acters might pur chase or nd. The DM lets y ou know if a shop has an item for sale and whether it s available at the listed price. Coins Char acters often nd coins on their adv entur es and can spend those coins in shops, inns, and other businesses. Coins come in diff erent denominations based on the r elativ e wor th of their material. The Coin V alues table lists coins and how much the yre wor th relativ e to the Gold Piece, which is the game s main coin. F or example, 100 Copper Pieces ar e wor th 1 Gold Piece. A coin weighs about a thir d of an ounce, so fty coins weigh a pound. Coin V alues Coin Value in GP Copper Piece (CP) 1/100 Silver Piece (SP) 1/10 Electrum Piece (EP) 1/2 Gold Piece (GP) 1 Platinum Piece (PP) 10 Weapons The W eapons table in this section shows the game s main weapons. The table lists the cost and weight of each weapon, as well as the following details: Categor y. Every weapon falls int o a categor y: Simple or Mar tial. W eapon pr ociencies ar e usually tied t o one of these categories. F or example, y ou might ha ve prociency with Simple weapons. Melee or Ranged. A weapon is classied as either Melee or Ranged. A Melee weapon is used t o attack a tar get within 5 feet, wher eas a Ranged weapon is used t o attack at a gr eater distance. Damage. The table lists the amount of damage a weapon deals when an attack er hits with it as well as the type of that damage. Proper ties. Any pr oper ties a weapon has ar e listed in the Pr oper ties column. Each pr oper ty is dened in the  Proper ties section. Master y. Each weapon has a master y proper ty, which is dened in the  Master y Proper ties section later in this chapter . To use that pr oper ty, you must ha ve a f eatur e that lets y ou use it. Weapons Name Damage Proper ties Master y Weight Cost Simple Melee W eapons Club1d4 BludgeoningLight Slow 2 lb. 1 SP Dagger 1d4 Pier cing Finesse , Light , Thr own (Range 20/60) Nick 1 lb. 2 GP Greatclub1d8 BludgeoningT wo-Handed Push 10 lb. 2 SP Handax e 1d6 Slashing Light , Thr own (Range 20/60) V ex 2 lb. 5 GP Javelin 1d6 Pier cing Thr own (Range 30/120) Slow 2 lb. 5 SP Light Hammer1d4 BludgeoningLight , Thr own (Range 20/60) Nick 2 lb. 2 GP Mace1d6 Bludgeoning Sap 4 lb. 5 GP Quar terstaff1d6 BludgeoningV ersatile (1d8) T opple 4 lb. 2 SP Sickle 1d4 Slashing Light Nick 2 lb. 1 GP Spear 1d6 Pier cing Thr own (Range 20/60), V ersatile (1d8) Sap 3 lb. 1 GP Simple Ranged W eapons Dart 1d4 Pier cing Finesse , Thr own (Range 20/60) V ex 1/4 lb. 5 CP Light Crossbow1d8 Pier cingA mmunition (Range 80/320; Bolt), Loading , T wo-HandedSlow 5 lb. 25 GP Shor tbow 1d6 Pier cingA mmunition (Range 80/320; Arr ow), T wo-HandedV ex 2 lb. 25 GP Sling1d4 BludgeoningA mmunition (Range 30/120; Bullet) Slow  1 SP Martial Melee W eapons Battleax e 1d8 Slashing V ersatile (1d10) T opple 4 lb. 10 GP Flail1d8 Bludgeoning Sap 2 lb. 10 GP Glaiv e 1d10 Slashing Hea vy, Reach , T wo-Handed Gr az e 6 lb. 20 GP Greatax e 1d12 Slashing Hea vy, T wo-Handed Clea v e 7 lb. 30 GP Greatswor d 2d6 Slashing Hea vy, T wo-Handed Gr az e 6 lb. 50 GP Halber d 1d10 Slashing Hea vy, Reach , T wo-Handed Clea v e 6 lb. 20 GP Lance 1d10 Pier cingHea vy, Reach , T wo-Handed (unless mounted)T opple 6 lb. 10 GP Longswor d 1d8 Slashing V ersatile (1d10) Sap 3 lb. 15 GP Maul2d6 BludgeoningHea vy, T wo-Handed T opple 10 lb. 10 GP Morningstar 1d8 Pier cing  Sap 4 lb. 15 GP Pike 1d10 Pier cing Hea vy, Reach , T wo-Handed Push 18 lb. 5 GP Rapier 1d8 Pier cing Finesse V ex 2 lb. 25 GP Scimitar 1d6 Slashing Finesse , Light Nick 3 lb. 25 GP Shor tswor d 1d6 Pier cing Finesse , Light V ex 2 lb. 10 GP Trident 1d8 Pier cingThr own (Range 20/60), V ersatile (1d10)T opple 4 lb. 5 GP Warhammer1d8 BludgeoningV ersatile (1d10) Push 5 lb. 15 GP War Pick 1d8 Pier cing V ersatile (1d10) Sap 2 lb. 5 GP Whip 1d4 Slashing Finesse , Reach Slow 3 lb. 2 GP Martial Ranged W eapons Blowgun 1 Pier cingA mmunition (Range 25/100; Needle), LoadingV ex 1 lb. 10 GP Hand Crossbow1d6 Pier cingA mmunition (Range 30/120; Bolt), Light , LoadingV ex 3 lb. 75 GP Heavy Crossbow1d10 Pier cingA mmunition (Range 100/400; Bolt), Hea vy, Loading , T wo-HandedPush 18 lb. 50 GP Longbow 1d8 Pier cingA mmunition (Range 150/600; Arr ow), Hea vy, T wo-HandedSlow 2 lb. 50 GP Musk et 1d12 Pier cingA mmunition (Range 40/120; Bullet), Loading , T wo-HandedSlow 10 lb. 500 GP Pistol 1d10 Pier cingA mmunition (Range 30/90; Bullet), LoadingV ex 3 lb. 250 GP Weapon Pr ociency Anyone can wield a weapon, but y ou must ha ve prociency with it t o add y our Pr ociency Bonus t o an attack r oll you mak e with it. A pla yer char acter s featur es can pr ovide weapon pr ociencies. A monster is pr ocient with any weapon in its stat block. Proper ties Here are denitions of the pr oper ties in the Pr oper ties column of the W eapons table. Ammunition You can use a weapon that has the Ammunition pr oper ty to mak e a r anged attack only if y ou ha ve ammunition t o re from it. The type of ammunition r equir ed is specied with the weapon s range. Each attack expends one piece of ammunition. Dr awing the ammunition is par t of the attack (y ou need a fr ee hand t o load a one-handed weapon). After a ght, y ou can spend 1 minute t o recover half the ammunition (r ound down) y ou used in the ght; the r est is lost. Finesse When making an attack with a Finesse weapon, use y our choice of y our Str ength or Dexterity modier for the attack and damage r olls. Y ou must use the same modier for both r olls. Heavy You ha ve Disadv antage on attack r olls with a Hea vy weapon if it s a Melee weapon and y our Str ength scor e isn t at least 13 or if it s a Ranged weapon and y our Dexterity scor e isn t at least 13. Light When y ou tak e the Attack action on y our turn and attack with a Light weapon, y ou can mak e one extr a attack as a Bonus Action later on the same turn. That extr a attack must be made with a diff erent Light weapon, and y ou don t add y our ability modier t o the extr a attack s damage unless that modier is negativ e. For example, y ou can attack with a Shor tswor d in one hand and a Dagger in the other using the Attack action and a Bonus Action, but y ou don t add y our Strength or Dexterity modier t o the damage r oll of the Bonus Action unless that modier is negativ e. Loading You can r e only one piece of ammunition fr om a Loading weapon when y ou use an action, a Bonus Action, or a Reaction t o re it, r egar dless of the number of attacks y ou can normally mak e. Range A Range weapon has a r ange in par entheses after the Ammunition or Thrown proper ty. The r ange lists two numbers. The rst is the weapon s normal r ange in f eet, and the second is the weapon s long r ange. When attacking a tar get beyond normal r ange, y ou ha ve Disadv antage on the attack r oll. Y ou can t attack a tar get be yond the long r ange. Reach A Reach weapon adds 5 f eet t o your r each when y ou attack with it, as well as when determining y our r each for Oppor tunity A ttacks with it. Thrown If a weapon has the Thrown pr oper ty, you can thr ow the weapon t o mak e a r anged attack, and y ou can dr aw that weapon as par t of the attack. If the weapon is a Melee weapon, use the same ability modier for the attack and damage rolls that y ou use for a melee attack with that weapon. Two-Handed A Two-Handed weapon r equir es two hands when y ou attack with it. Versatile A Versatile weapon can be used with one or two hands. A damage v alue in par entheses appears with the pr oper ty. The weapon deals that damage when used with two hands t o mak e a melee attack. Master y Proper ties Each weapon has a master y proper ty, which is usable only b y a char acter who has a f eatur e, such as W eapon Master y, that unlocks the pr oper ty for the char acter . The pr oper ties ar e dened below . Clea ve If you hit a cr eatur e with a melee attack r oll using this weapon, y ou can mak e a melee attack r oll with the weapon against a second cr eatur e within 5 f eet of the rst that is also within y our r each. On a hit, the second cr eatur e tak es the weapon s damage, but don t add y our ability modier t o that damage unless that modier is negativ e. You can mak e this extra attack only once per turn. Graze If your attack r oll with this weapon misses a cr eatur e, you can deal damage t o that cr eatur e equal t o the ability modier you used t o mak e the attack r oll. This damage is the same type dealt b y the weapon, and the damage can be incr eased only b y incr easing the ability modier . Nick When y ou mak e the extr a attack of the Light proper ty, you can mak e it as par t of the Attack action instead of as a Bonus Action. Y ou can mak e this extr a attack only once per turn. Push If you hit a cr eatur e with this weapon, y ou can push the cr eatur e up t o 10 f eet str aight awa y from y ourself if it is Lar ge or smaller . Sap If you hit a cr eatur e with this weapon, that cr eatur e has Disadv antage on its next attack r oll befor e the star t of y our next turn. Slow If you hit a cr eatur e with this weapon and deal damage t o it, y ou can r educe its Speed b y 10 f eet until the star t of y our next turn. If the cr eatur e is hit mor e than once b y weapons that ha ve this pr oper ty, the Speed r eduction doesn t exceed 10 feet. Topple If you hit a cr eatur e with this weapon, y ou can for ce the cr eatur e to mak e a Constitution sa ving thr ow (DC 8 plus the ability modier used t o mak e the attack r oll and y our Pr ociency Bonus). On a failed sa ve, the cr eatur e has the Pr one condition. Vex If you hit a cr eatur e with this weapon and deal damage t o the cr eatur e, you ha ve Advantage on y our next attack r oll against that cr eatur e befor e the end of y our next turn. Armor The Armor table lists the game s main armor . The table includes the cost and weight of armor , as well as the following details: Categor y. Every type of armor falls int o a categor y: Light, Medium, or Hea vy. The categor y determines how long it tak es to don or doff the armor (as shown in the table). Armor Class (A C). The table s Armor Class column tells y ou what y our base A C is when y ou wear a type of armor . For example, if y ou wear Leather Armor , your base A C is 11 plus y our Dexterity modier , wher eas y our A C is 16 in Chain Mail. Strength. If the table shows a Str ength scor e in the Str ength column for an armor type, that armor r educes the wear ers speed b y 10 f eet unless the wear er has a Str ength scor e equal t o or higher than the listed scor e. Stealth. If the table shows Disadv antage  in the Stealth column for an armor type, the wear er has Disadv antage on Dexterity ( Stealth ) checks. Armor Armor Armor Class (A C) Strength Stealth Weight Cost Light Armor (1 Minute t o Don or Doff ) Padded Armor 11 + Dex modier  Disadv antage 8 lb. 5 GP Leather Armor 11 + Dex modier   10 lb. 10 GP Studded Leather Armor 12 + Dex modier   13 lb. 45 GP Medium Armor (5 Minutes t o Don and 1 Minute t o Doff ) Hide Armor 12 + Dex modier (max 2)   12 lb. 10 GP Chain Shir t 13 + Dex modier (max 2)   20 lb. 50 GP Scale Mail 14 + Dex modier (max 2)  Disadv antage 45 lb. 50 GP Breastplate 14 + Dex modier (max 2)   20 lb. 400 GP Half Plate Armor 15 + Dex modier (max 2)  Disadv antage 40 lb. 750 GP Heavy Armor (10 Minutes t o Don and 5 Minutes t o Doff ) Ring Mail 14  Disadv antage 40 lb. 30 GP Chain Mail 16 Str 13 Disadv antage 55 lb. 75 GP Splint Armor 17 Str 15 Disadv antage 60 lb. 200 GP Plate Armor 18 Str 15 Disadv antage 65 lb. 1,500 GP Shield ( Utiliz e Action t o Don or Doff ) Shield +2   6 lb. 10 GP Armor Training Anyone can don armor or hold a Shield, but only those with tr aining can use them eff ectiv ely, as explained below . A char acter s class and other f eatur es determine the char acter s armor tr aining. A monster has tr aining with any armor in its stat block. Light, Medium, or Hea vy Armor If you wear Light, Medium, or Hea vy armor and lack tr aining with it, y ou ha ve Disadv antage on any D20 Test that involves Str ength or Dexterity , and y ou can t cast spells. Shield You gain the Armor Class benet of a Shield only if y ou ha ve training with it. One at a Time A creatur e can wear only one suit of armor at a time and wield only one Shield at a time. Tools A tool helps y ou mak e specializ ed ability checks, cr aft cer tain items, or both. A t ools description includes the t ools cost and weight, as well as the following entries: Ability . This entr y lists the ability t o use when making an ability check with the t ool. Utiliz e. This entr y lists things y ou can do with the t ool when y ou tak e the Utiliz e action. Y ou can do one of those things each time y ou tak e the action. This entr y also pr ovides the DC for the action. Craft. This entr y lists what, if anything, y ou can cr aft with the t ool. F or cr afting rules, see  Crafting E quipment  later in the chapter . Variants. This entr y appears if the t ool has v ariants, which ar e listed. Each r equir es a separ ate pr ociency . Tool Pr ociency If you ha ve prociency with a t ool, add y our Pr ociency Bonus t o any ability check y ou mak e that uses the t ool. If y ou have prociency in a skill that s used with that check, y ou ha ve Advantage on the check t oo. Your f eatur es might giv e you pr ociency with a t ool. A monster has pr ociency with any t ool in its stat block. Artisan s Tools Artisan s Tools ar e each focused on cr afting items and pursuing a tr ade. Each of these t ools r equir es a separ ate prociency . Alchemist s Supplies (50 GP) Ability: Intelligence Weight: 8 lb. Utiliz e: Identify a substance (DC 15), or star t a r e (DC 15) Craft: Acid , Alchemist s Fir e, Component P ouch , Oil, Paper , Perfume Brewer s Supplies (20 GP) Ability: Intelligence Weight: 9 lb. Utiliz e: Detect poisoned drink (DC 15), or identify alcohol (DC 10) Craft: Antitoxin Calligr apher s Supplies (10 GP) Ability: Dexterity Weight: 5 lb. Utiliz e: Write text with impr essiv e ourishes that guar d against for gery (DC 15) Craft: Ink, Spell Scr oll Carpenter s Tools (8 GP) Ability: Strength Weight: 6 lb. Utiliz e: Seal or pr y open a door or container (DC 20) Craft: Club , Greatclub , Quar terstaff , Barr el, Chest , Ladder , Pole, Portable Ram , Torch Cartographer s Tools (15 GP) Ability: Wisdom Weight: 6 lb. Utiliz e: Draft a map of a small ar ea (DC 15) Craft: Map Cobbler s Tools (5 GP) Ability: Dexterity Weight: 5 lb. Utiliz e: Modify footwear t o giv e Advantage on the wear ers next Dexterity ( Acrobatics ) check (DC 10) Craft: Climber s Kit Cook s Utensils (1 GP) Ability: Wisdom Weight: 8 lb. Utiliz e: Impr ove food s a vor (DC 10), or detect spoiled or poisoned food (DC 15) Craft: Rations Glassblower s Tools (30 GP) Ability: Intelligence Weight: 5 lb. Utiliz e: Discern what a glass object held in the past 24 hours (DC 15) Craft: Glass Bottle , Magnifying Glass , Spyglass , Vial Jeweler s Tools (25 GP) Ability: Intelligence Weight: 2 lb. Utiliz e: Discern a gem s value (DC 15) Craft: Arcane F ocus , Holy Symbol Leather work ers Tools (5 GP) Ability: Dexterity Weight: 5 lb. Utiliz e: Add a design t o a leather item (DC 10) Craft: Sling , Whip , Hide Armor , Leather Armor , Studded Leather Armor , Backpack , Crossbow Bolt Case , Map or Scr oll Case , Parchment , Pouch , Quiv er, Waterskin Mason s Tools (10 GP) Ability: Strength Weight: 8 lb. Utiliz e: Chisel a symbol or hole in st one (DC 10) Craft: Block and Tackle Painter s Supplies (10 GP) Ability: Wisdom Weight: 5 lb. Utiliz e: Paint a r ecognizable image of something y ouve seen (DC 10) Craft: Druidic F ocus , Holy Symbol Potter s Tools (10 GP) Ability: Intelligence Weight: 3 lb. Utiliz e: Discern what a cer amic object held in the past 24 hours (DC 15) Craft: Jug, Lamp Smith s Tools (20 GP) Ability: Strength Weight: 8 lb. Utiliz e: Pry open a door or container (DC 20) Craft: Any Melee weapon (ex cept Club, Gr eatclub, Quar terstaff, and Whip), Medium armor (ex cept Hide), Hea vy armor , Ball Bearings , Buck et, Caltr ops, Chain , Crowbar , Firearm Bullets , Grappling Hook , Iron P ot, Iron Spik es, Sling Bullets Tink ers Tools (50 GP) Ability: Dexterity Weight: 10 lb. Utiliz e: Assemble a Tiny item composed of scr ap, which falls apar t in 1 minute (DC 20) Craft: Musk et, Pistol, Bell, Bullse ye Lantern , Flask , Hooded Lantern , Hunting Trap, Lock , Manacles , Mirror, Shovel, Signal Whistle , Tinderbo x Weavers Tools (1 GP) Ability: Dexterity Weight: 5 lb. Utiliz e: Mend a tear in clothing (DC 10), or sew a Tiny design (DC 10) Craft: Padded Armor , Bask et, Bedr oll, Blank et, Fine Clothes , Net, Robe , Rope , Sack , String , Tent, Traveler's Clothes Woodcar vers Tools (1 GP) Ability: Dexterity Weight: 5 lb. Utiliz e: Carve a pattern in wood (DC 10) Craft: Club , Greatclub , Quar terstaff , Ranged weapons (ex cept Pist ol, Musk et, and Sling), Arcane F ocus , Arrows, Bolts , Druidic F ocus , Ink P en, Needles Other Tools These t ools suppor t adv entur e and other pursuits. Disguise Kit (25 GP) Ability: Charisma Weight: 3 lb. Utiliz e: Apply mak eup (DC 10) Craft: Costume Forgery Kit (15 GP) Ability: Dexterity Weight: 5 lb. Utiliz e: Mimic 10 or f ewer wor ds of someone else s handwriting (DC 15), or duplicate a wax seal (DC 20) Gaming Set ( Varies) Ability: Wisdom Weight:  Utiliz e: Discern whether someone is cheating (DC 10), or win the game (DC 20) Variants: Dice (1 SP), dragonchess (1 GP), playing car ds (5 SP), three-dr agon ante (1 GP) Herbalism Kit (5 GP) Ability: Intelligence Weight: 3 lb. Utiliz e: Identify a plant (DC 10) Craft: Antitoxin, Candle , Healer s Kit , Potion of Healing Musical Instrument ( Varies) Ability: Charisma Weight: Varies Utiliz e: Play a known tune (DC 10), or impr ovise a song (DC 15) Variants: Bagpipes (30 GP , 6 lb.), drum (6 GP , 3 lb.), dulcimer (25 GP , 10 lb.), ute (2 GP , 1 lb.), horn (3 GP , 2 lb.), lute (35 GP, 2 lb.), lyre (30 GP , 2 lb.), pan ute (12 GP , 2 lb.), shawm (2 GP , 1 lb.), viol (30 GP , 1 lb.) Navigat ors Tools (25 GP) Ability: Wisdom Weight: 2 lb. Utiliz e: Plot a course (DC 10), or determine position b y star gazing (DC 15) Poisoner s Kit (50 GP) Ability: Intelligence Weight: 2 lb. Utiliz e: Detect a poisoned object (DC 10) Craft: Basic P oison Thie ves Tools (25 GP) Ability: Dexterity Weight: 1 lb. Utiliz e: Pick a lock (DC 15), or disarm a tr ap (DC 15) Adventuring Gear The Adv enturing Gear table in this section includes gear that adv entur ers often nd useful. These items ar e described here in alphabetical or der, with an item s price appearing after its name. Adventuring Gear Item Weight Cost Acid 1 lb. 25 GP Alchemist s Fir e 1 lb. 50 GP Ammunition Varies Varies Antit oxin  50 GP Arcane F ocus Varies Varies Backpack 5 lb. 2 GP Ball Bearings 2 lb. 1 GP Barrel 70 lb. 2 GP Bask et 2 lb. 4 SP Bedr oll 7 lb. 1 GP Bell  1 GP Blank et 3 lb. 5 SP Block and Tackle 5 lb. 1 GP Book 5 lb. 25 GP Bottle, Glass 2 lb. 2 GP Buck et 2 lb. 5 CP Burglars Pack 42 lb. 16 GP Caltr ops 2 lb. 1 GP Candle  1 CP Case, Cr ossbow Bolt 1 lb. 1 GP Case, Map or Scr oll 1 lb. 1 GP Chain 10 lb. 5 GP Chest 25 lb. 5 GP Climber s Kit 12 lb. 25 GP Clothes, Fine 6 lb. 15 GP Clothes, Travelers 4 lb. 2 GP Component P ouch 2 lb. 25 GP Costume 4 lb. 5 GP Crowbar 5 lb. 2 GP Diplomat s Pack 39 lb. 39 GP Druidic F ocus Varies Varies Dungeoneer s Pack 55 lb. 12 GP Enter tainer s Pack 58 lb. 40 GP Explor ers Pack 55 lb. 10 GP Flask 1 lb. 2 CP Grappling Hook 4 lb. 2 GP Healer s Kit 3 lb. 5 GP Holy Symbol Varies Varies Holy W ater 1 lb. 25 GP Hunting Trap 25 lb. 5 GP Ink  10 GP Ink P en  2 CP Jug 4 lb. 2 CP Ladder 25 lb. 1 SP Lamp 1 lb. 5 SP Lantern, Bullse ye 2 lb. 10 GP Lantern, Hooded 2 lb. 5 GP Lock 1 lb. 10 GP Magnifying Glass  100 GP Manacles 6 lb. 2 GP Map  1 GP Mirror 1/2 lb. 5 GP Net 3 lb. 1 GP Oil 1 lb. 1 SP Paper  2 SP Parchment  1 SP Perfume  5 GP Poison, Basic  100 GP Pole 7 lb. 5 CP Pot, Ir on 10 lb. 2 GP Potion of Healing 1/2 lb. 50 GP Pouch 1 lb. 5 SP Priest s Pack 29 lb. 33 GP Quiv er 1 lb. 1 GP Ram, P ortable 35 lb. 4 GP Rations 2 lb. 5 SP Robe 4 lb. 1 GP Rope 5 lb. 1 GP Sack 1/2 lb. 1 CP Scholar s Pack 22 lb. 40 GP Shovel 5 lb. 2 GP Signal Whistle  5 CP Spell Scr oll (Cantrip)  30 GP Spell Scr oll (Level 1)  50 GP Spik es, Ir on 5 lb. 1 GP Spyglass 1 lb. 1,000 GP String  1 SP Tent 20 lb. 2 GP Tinderbo x 1 lb. 5 SP Torch 1 lb. 1 CP Vial  1 GP Waterskin 5 lb. (full) 2 SP Acid (25 GP) When y ou tak e the Attack action, y ou can r eplace one of y our attacks with thr owing a vial of Acid. Target one cr eatur e or object y ou can see within 20 f eet of y ourself. The tar get must succeed on a Dexterity sa ving thr ow (DC 8 plus y our Dexterity modier and Pr ociency Bonus) or tak e 2d6 Acid damage. Alchemist s Fir e (50 GP) When y ou tak e the Attack action, y ou can r eplace one of y our attacks with thr owing a ask of Alchemist s Fir e. Target one cr eatur e or object y ou can see within 20 f eet of y ourself. The tar get must succeed on a Dexterity sa ving thr ow (DC 8 plus y our Dexterity modier and Pr ociency Bonus) or tak e 1d4 Fir e damage and star t burning (see the rules glossar y). Ammunition ( Varies) Ammunition is r equir ed b y a weapon that has the Ammunition proper ty. A weapon s description species the type of ammunition used b y the weapon. The Ammunition table lists the diff erent types and the amount y ou get when y ou buy them. The table also lists the item that is typically used t o store each type; st orage must be bought separ ately . Ammunition Type Amount Storage Weight Cost Arrows 20 Quiv er 1 lb. 1 GP Bolts 20 Case 1 lb. 1 GP Bullets, Fir earm 10 Pouch 2 lb. 3 GP Bullets, Sling 20 Pouch 1 lb. 4 CP Needles 50 Pouch 1 lb. 1 GP Antitoxin (50 GP) As a Bonus Action, y ou can drink a vial of Antit oxin to gain Advantage on sa ving thr ows t o avoid or end the P oisoned condition for 1 hour . Arcane F ocus (Varies) An Ar cane F ocus tak es one of the forms in the Ar cane F ocuses table and is bejeweled or car ved to channel ar cane magic. A Sor cerer, Warlock, or Wizar d can use such an item as a Spellcasting F ocus. Arcane F ocuses Focus Weight Cost Crystal 1 lb. 10 GP Orb 3 lb. 20 GP Rod 2 lb. 10 GP Staff (also a Quar terstaff ) 4 lb. 5 GP Wand 1 lb. 10 GP Backpack (2 GP) A Backpack holds up t o 30 pounds within 1 cubic foot. It can also ser ve as a saddlebag. Ball Bearings (1 GP) As a Utiliz e action, y ou can spill Ball Bearings fr om their pouch. They spr ead t o co ver a le vel, 10-foot-squar e area within 10 feet of y ourself. A cr eatur e that enters this ar ea for the rst time on a turn must succeed on a DC 10 Dexterity sa ving throw or ha ve the Pr one condition. It tak es 10 minutes t o recover the Ball Bearings. Barr el (2 GP) A Barr el holds up t o 40 gallons of liquid or up t o 4 cubic f eet of dr y goods. Bask et (4 SP) A Bask et holds up t o 40 pounds within 2 cubic f eet. Bedr oll (1 GP) A Bedr oll sleeps one Small or Medium cr eatur e. While in a Bedr oll, y ou aut omatically succeed on sa ving thr ows against extreme cold (see the Dungeon Master s Guide ). Bell (1 GP) When rung as a Utiliz e action, a Bell pr oduces a sound that can be hear d up t o 60 f eet awa y. Blank et (5 SP) While wr apped in a blank et, you ha ve Advantage on sa ving thr ows against extr eme cold (see the Dungeon Master s Guide ). Block and Tackle (1 GP) A Block and Tackle allows y ou to hoist up t o four times the weight y ou can normally lift. Book (25 GP) A Book contains ction or nonction. If y ou consult an accur ate nonction Book about its t opic, y ou gain a +5 bonus t o Intelligence ( Arcana , History, Natur e, or Religion ) checks y ou mak e about that t opic. Bottle, Glass (2 GP) A Glass Bottle holds up t o 1 pints. Buck et (5 CP) A Buck et holds up t o half a cubic foot of contents. Burglars Pack (16 GP) A Bur glars Pack contains the following items: Backpack , Ball Bearings , Bell, 10 Candles , Crowbar , Hooded Lantern , 7 asks of Oil, 5 da ys of Rations , Rope , Tinderbo x, and Waterskin . Caltr ops (1 GP) As a Utiliz e action, y ou can spr ead Caltr ops fr om their bag t o co ver a 5-foot-squar e area within 5 f eet of y ourself. A creatur e that enters this ar ea for the rst time on a turn must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity sa ving thr ow or tak e 1 Piercing damage and ha ve its Speed r educed t o 0 until the star t of its next turn. It tak es 10 minutes t o recover the Caltr ops. Candle (1 CP) For 1 hour , a lit Candle sheds Bright Light in a 5-foot r adius and Dim Light for an additional 5 f eet. Case, Cr ossbow Bolt (1 GP) A Cr ossbow Bolt Case holds up t o 20 Bolts . Case, Map or Scr oll (1 GP) A Map or Scr oll Case holds up t o 10 sheets of paper or 5 sheets of parchment . Chain (5 GP) As a Utiliz e action, y ou can wr ap a Chain ar ound an unwilling cr eatur e within 5 f eet of y ourself that has the Gr appled , Incapacitated , or Restr ained condition if y ou succeed on a DC 13 Str ength ( Athletics ) check. If the cr eatur es legs ar e bound, the cr eatur e has the Restr ained condition until it escapes. Escaping the Chain r equir es the cr eatur e to mak e a successful DC 18 Dexterity ( Acrobatics ) check as an action. Bursting the Chain r equir es a successful DC 20 Str ength (Athletics ) check as an action. Chest (5 GP) A Chest holds up t o 12 cubic f eet of contents. Climber s Kit (25 GP) A Climber s Kit includes boot tips, glo ves, pit ons, and a harness. As a Utiliz e action, y ou can use the Climber s Kit t o anchor y ourself; when y ou do, y ou can t fall mor e than 25 f eet fr om the anchor point, and y ou can t mo ve mor e than 25 feet fr om ther e without undoing the anchor as a Bonus Action. Clothes, Fine (15 GP) Fine Clothes ar e made of expensiv e fabrics and adorned with exper tly cr afted details. Some e vents and locations admit only people wearing these clothes. Clothes, Travelers (2 GP) Travelers Clothes ar e resilient garments designed for tr avel in v arious envir onments. Component P ouch (25 GP) A Component P ouch is water tight and lled with compar tments that hold all the fr ee Material components of y our spells. Costume (5 GP) While wearing a Costume, y ou ha ve Advantage on any ability check y ou mak e to impersonate the person or type of person it r epresents. Crowbar (2 GP) Using a Cr owbar giv es you Advantage on Str ength checks wher e the Cr owbar s leverage can be applied. Diplomat s Pack (39 GP) A Diplomat s Pack contains the following items: Chest , Fine Clothes , Ink, 5 Ink P ens, Lamp , 2 Map or Scr oll Cases , 4 asks of Oil, 5 sheets of Paper , 5 sheets of Parchment , Perfume , and Tinderbo x. Druidic F ocus (Varies) A Druidic F ocus tak es one of the forms in the Druidic F ocuses table and is car ved, tied with ribbon, or painted t o channel primal magic. A Druid or Ranger can use such an object as a Spellcasting F ocus. Druidic F ocuses Focus Weight Cost Sprig of mistlet oe  1 GP Wooden staff (also a Quar terstaff ) 4 lb. 5 GP Yew wand 1 lb. 10 GP Dungeoneer s Pack (12 GP) A Dungeoneer s Pack contains the following items: Backpack , Caltr ops, Crowbar , 2 asks of Oil, 10 da ys of Rations , Rope , Tinderbo x, 10 Torches , and Waterskin . Enter tainer s Pack (40 GP) An Enter tainer s Pack contains the following items: Backpack , Bedr oll, Bell, Bullse ye Lantern , 3 Costumes , Mirror, 8 asks of Oil, 9 da ys of Rations , Tinderbo x, and Waterskin . Explor ers Pack (10 GP) An Explor ers Pack contains the following items: Backpack , Bedr oll, 2 asks of Oil, 10 da ys of Rations , Rope , Tinderbo x, 10 Torches , and Waterskin . Flask (2 CP) A Flask holds up t o 1 pint. Grappling Hook (2 GP) As a Utiliz e action, y ou can thr ow the Gr appling Hook at a r ailing, a ledge, or another catch within 50 f eet of y ourself, and the hook catches on if y ou succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity ( Acrobatics ) check. If y ou tied a Rope to the hook, y ou can then climb it. Healer s Kit (5 GP) A Healer s Kit has ten uses. As a Utiliz e action, y ou can expend one of its uses t o stabiliz e an Unconscious creatur e that has 0 Hit P oints without needing t o mak e a Wisdom ( Medicine ) check. Holy Symbol (Varies) A Holy Symbol tak es one of the forms in the Holy Symbol table and is bejeweled or painted t o channel divine magic. A Cleric or P aladin can use a Holy Symbol as a Spellcasting F ocus. The table indicates whether a Holy Symbol needs t o be held, worn, or borne on fabric (such as a tabar d or banner) or a Shield. Holy Symbols Symbol Weight Cost Amulet (worn or held) 1 lb. 5 GP Emblem (borne on fabric or a Shield)  5 GP Reliquar y (held) 2 lb. 5 GP Holy W ater (25 GP) When y ou tak e the Attack action, y ou can r eplace one of y our attacks with thr owing a ask of Holy W ater. Target one creatur e you can see within 20 f eet of y ourself. The tar get must succeed on a Dexterity sa ving thr ow (DC 8 plus y our Dexterity modier and Pr ociency Bonus) or tak e 2d8 Radiant damage if it is a Fiend or an Undead. Hunting Trap (5 GP) As a Utiliz e action, y ou can set a Hunting Trap, which is a sawt ooth steel ring that snaps shut when a cr eatur e steps on a pressur e plate in the center . The tr ap is ax ed b y a hea vy chain t o an immobile object, such as a tr ee or a spik e driv en into the gr ound. A cr eatur e that steps on the plate must succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity sa ving thr ow or tak e 1d4 Pier cing damage and ha ve its Speed r educed t o 0 until the star t of its next turn. Ther eafter , until the cr eatur e breaks fr ee of the trap, its mo vement is limited b y the length of the chain (typically 3 f eet). A cr eatur e can use its action t o mak e a DC 13 Strength ( Athletics ) check, fr eeing itself or another cr eatur e within its r each on a success. Each failed check deals 1 Piercing damage t o the tr apped cr eatur e. Ink (10 GP) Ink comes in a 1-ounce bottle, which pr ovides enough ink t o write about 500 pages. Ink P en (2 CP) Using Ink, an Ink P en is used t o write or dr aw. Jug (2 CP) A Jug holds up t o 1 gallon. Ladder (1 SP) A Ladder is 10 f eet tall. Y ou must climb t o mo ve up or down it. Lamp (5 SP) A Lamp burns Oil as fuel t o cast Bright Light in a 15-foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 30 f eet. Lantern, Bullse ye (10 GP) A Bullse ye Lantern burns Oil as fuel t o cast Bright Light in a 60-foot Cone and Dim Light for an additional 60 f eet. Lantern, Hooded (5 GP) A Hooded Lantern burns Oil as fuel t o cast Bright Light in a 30-foot r adius and Dim Light for an additional 30 f eet. As a Bonus Action, y ou can lower the hood, r educing the light t o Dim Light in a 5-foot r adius, or r aise it again. Lock (10 GP) A Lock comes with a k ey. Without the k ey, a cr eatur e can use Thie ves Tools to pick this Lock with a successful DC 15 Dexterity ( Sleight of Hand ) check. Magnifying Glass (100 GP) A Magnifying Glass gr ants Advantage on any ability check made t o appr aise or inspect a highly detailed item. Lighting a re with a Magnifying Glass r equir es light as bright as sunlight t o focus, tinder t o ignite, and about 5 minutes for the r e to ignite. Manacles (2 GP) As a Utiliz e action, y ou can use Manacles t o bind an unwilling Small or Medium cr eatur e within 5 f eet of y ourself that has the Gr appled , Incapacitated , or Restr ained condition if y ou succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity ( Sleight of Hand ) check. While bound, a cr eatur e has Disadv antage on attack r olls, and the cr eatur e is Restr ained if the Manacles ar e attached t o a chain or hook that is x ed in place. Escaping the Manacles r equir es a successful DC 20 Dexterity ( Sleight of Hand ) check as an action. Bursting them r equir es a successful DC 25 Str ength ( Athletics ) check as an action. Each set of Manacles comes with a k ey. Without the k ey, a cr eatur e can use Thie ves Tools to pick the Manacles lock with a successful DC 15 Dexterity ( Sleight of Hand ) check. Map (1 GP) If you consult an accur ate Map, y ou gain a +5 bonus t o Wisdom ( Survival) checks y ou mak e to nd y our wa y in the place represented on it. Mirror (5 GP) A handheld steel Mirr or is useful for personal cosmetics but also for peeking ar ound corners and r eecting light as a signal. Net (1 GP) When y ou tak e the Attack action, y ou can r eplace one of y our attacks with thr owing a Net. Target a cr eatur e you can see within 15 f eet of y ourself. The tar get must succeed on a Dexterity sa ving thr ow (DC 8 plus y our Dexterity modier and Prociency Bonus) or ha ve the Restr ained condition until it escapes. The tar get succeeds aut omatically if it is Huge or larger. To escape, the tar get or a cr eatur e within 5 f eet of it must tak e an action t o mak e a DC 10 Str ength ( Athletics ) check, freeing the Restr ained cr eatur e on a success. Destr oying the Net (A C 10; 5 HP; Immunity t o Bludgeoning, P oison, and Psychic damage) also fr ees the tar get, ending the eff ect. Oil (1 SP) You can douse a cr eatur e, object, or space with Oil or use it as fuel, as detailed below . Dousing a Cr eatur e or an Object. When y ou tak e the Attack action, y ou can r eplace one of y our attacks with thr owing an Oil ask. Target one cr eatur e or object within 20 f eet of y ourself. The tar get must succeed on a Dexterity sa ving thr ow (DC 8 plus y our Dexterity modier and Pr ociency Bonus) or be co vered in oil. If the tar get tak es Fir e damage befor e the oil dries (after 1 minute), the tar get tak es an extr a 5 Fir e damage fr om burning oil. Dousing a Space. You can tak e the Utiliz e action t o pour an Oil ask on le vel gr ound t o co ver a 5-foot-squar e area within 5 feet of y ourself. If lit, the oil burns until the end of the turn 2 r ounds fr om when the oil was lit (or 12 seconds) and deals 5 Fir e damage t o any cr eatur e that enters the ar ea or ends its turn ther e. A cr eatur e can tak e this damage only once per turn. Fuel. Oil ser ves as fuel for Lamps and Lanterns. Once lit, a ask of Oil burns for 6 hours in a Lamp or Lantern. That duration doesn t need t o be consecutiv e; you can extinguish the burning Oil (as a Utiliz e action) and r ekindle it again until it has burned for a t otal of 6 hours. Paper (2 SP) One sheet of P aper can hold about 250 handwritten wor ds. Parchment (1 SP) One sheet of P archment can hold about 250 handwritten wor ds. Perfume (5 GP) Perfume comes in a 4-ounce vial. F or 1 hour after applying P erfume t o yourself, y ou ha ve Advantage on Charisma (Persuasion ) checks made t o inuence an Indiff erent Humanoid within 5 f eet of y ourself. Poison, Basic (100 GP) As a Bonus Action, y ou can use a vial of Basic P oison t o coat one weapon or up t o thr ee pieces of ammunition. A creatur e that tak es Pier cing or Slashing damage fr om the poisoned weapon or ammunition tak es an extr a 1d4 P oison damage. Once applied, the poison r etains potency for 1 minute or until its damage is dealt, whiche ver comes rst. Pole (5 CP) A Pole is 10 f eet long. Y ou can use it t o touch something up t o 10 f eet awa y. If you must mak e a Str ength ( Athletics ) check as par t of a High or Long Jump , you can use the P ole t o vault, giving y ourself Advantage on the check. Pot, Ir on (2 GP) An Ir on P ot holds up t o 1 gallon. Potion of Healing (50 GP) This potion is a magic item. As a Bonus Action, y ou can drink it or administer it t o another cr eatur e within 5 f eet of yourself. The cr eatur e that drinks the magical r ed uid in this vial r egains 2d4 + 2 Hit P oints. Pouch (5 SP) A Pouch holds up t o 6 pounds within one-fth of a cubic foot. Priest s Pack (33 GP) A Priest s Pack contains the following items: Backpack , Blank et, Holy W ater, Lamp , 7 da ys of Rations , Robe , and Tinderbo x. Quiv er (1 GP) A Quiv er holds up t o 20 Arrows. Ram, P ortable (4 GP) You can use a P ortable Ram t o break down doors. When doing so, y ou gain a +4 bonus t o the Str ength check. One other char acter can help y ou use the r am, giving y ou Advantage on this check. Rations (5 SP) Rations consist of tr avel-ready food, including jerky , dried fruit, har dtack, and nuts. See  Malnutrition  in the rules glossar y for the risks of not eating. Robe (1 GP) A Robe has v ocational or cer emonial signicance. Some e vents and locations admit only people wearing a Robe bearing certain colors or symbols. Rope (1 GP) As a Utiliz e action, y ou can tie a knot with Rope if y ou succeed on a DC 10 Dexterity ( Sleight of Hand ) check. The Rope can be burst with a successful DC 20 Str ength ( Athletics ) check. You can bind an unwilling cr eatur e with the Rope only if the cr eatur e has the Gr appled , Incapacitated , or Restr ained condition. If the cr eatur es legs ar e bound, the cr eatur e has the Restr ained condition until it escapes. Escaping the Rope requir es the cr eatur e to mak e a successful DC 15 Dexterity ( Acrobatics ) check as an action. Sack (1 CP) A Sack holds up t o 30 pounds within 1 cubic foot. Scholar s Pack (40 GP) A Scholar s Pack contains the following items: Backpack , Book , Ink, Ink P en, Lamp , 10 asks of Oil, 10 sheets of Parchment , and Tinderbo x. Shovel (2 GP) Working for 1 hour , you can use a Sho vel to dig a hole that is 5 f eet on each side in soil or similar material. Signal Whistle (5 CP) When blown as a Utiliz e action, a Signal Whistle pr oduces a sound that can be hear d up t o 600 f eet awa y. Spell Scr oll (Cantrip, 30 GP Level 1, 50 GP) A Spell Scr oll (Cantrip) or Spell Scr oll (Level 1) is a magic item that bears the wor ds of a cantrip or le vel 1 spell, respectiv ely, determined b y the scr olls creator. If the spell is on y our class s spell list, y ou can r ead the scr oll and cast the spell using its normal casting time and without pr oviding any Material components. If the spell r equir es a sa ving thr ow or an attack r oll, the spell sa ve DC is 13, and the attack bonus is +5. The scr oll disintegr ates when the casting is completed. Spik es, Ir on (1 GP) Iron Spik es come in bundles of ten. As a Utiliz e action, y ou can use a blunt object, such as a Light Hammer , to hammer a spik e int o wood, ear th, or a similar material. Y ou can do so t o jam a door shut or t o then tie a Rope or Chain to the Spik e. Spyglass (1,000 GP) Objects viewed thr ough a Sp yglass ar e magnied t o twice their siz e. String (1 SP) String is 10 f eet long. Y ou can tie a knot in it as a Utiliz e action. Tent (2 GP) A Tent sleeps up t o two Small or Medium cr eatur es. Tinderbo x (5 SP) A Tinderbo x is a small container holding int, r e steel, and tinder (usually dr y cloth soak ed in light oil) used t o kindle a r e. Using it to light a Candle , Lamp , Lantern, or Torchor anything else with exposed fueltak es a Bonus Action. Lighting any other r e tak es 1 minute. Torch (1 CP) A Torch burns for 1 hour , casting Bright Light in a 20-foot r adius and Dim Light for an additional 20 f eet. When y ou tak e the Attack action, y ou can attack with the Torch, using it as a Simple Melee weapon. On a hit, the tar get tak es 1 Fir e damage. Vial (1 GP) A Vial holds up t o 4 ounces. Waterskin (2 SP) A Waterskin holds up t o 4 pints. If y ou don t drink sucient water , you risk dehy dration (see the rules glossar y). Mounts and V ehicles A mount can help y ou mo ve mor e quickly thr ough the wilderness, but its primar y purpose is t o carr y gear that would other wise slow y ou down. The Mounts and Other Animals table shows each animal s carr ying capacity . See appendix B for the animals stat blocks. Mounts and Car go An animal pulling a carriage, car t, chariot, sled, or wagon can mo ve weight up t o ve times its base carr ying capacity , including the weight of the v ehicle. If multiple animals pull the same v ehicle, add their carr ying capacities t ogether . Barding Barding is armor designed for a mount. Any type of armor on the Armor table in this chapter can be pur chased as barding. The cost is four times the normal cost, and it weighs twice as much. Saddles A saddle comes with a bit, a bridle, r eins, and any other equipment needed t o use the saddle. A Militar y Saddle giv es Advantage on any ability check y ou mak e to remain mounted. An Ex otic Saddle is r equir ed for riding an aquatic or a ying mount. Mounts and Other A nimals Item Carr ying Capacity Cost Camel 450 lb. 50 GP Elephant 1,320 lb. 200 GP Horse, Dr aft 540 lb. 50 GP Horse, Riding 480 lb. 75 GP Mastiff 195 lb. 25 GP Mule 420 lb. 8 GP Pony 225 lb. 30 GP Warhorse 540 lb. 400 GP Tack, Harness, and Dr awn V ehicles Item Weight Cost Carriage 600 lb. 100 GP Cart 200 lb. 15 GP Chariot 100 lb. 250 GP Feed per da y 10 lb. 5 CP Saddle Exotic 40 lb. 60 GP Militar y 30 lb. 20 GP Riding 25 lb. 10 GP Sled 300 lb. 20 GP Stabling per da y  5 SP Wagon 400 lb. 35 GP Large V ehicles The Airborne and W aterborne V ehicles table pr ovides statistics for v arious types of lar ge vehicles. The following notes apply . Speed A ship sailing against a str ong wind mo ves at half speed. In a dead calm (no wind), waterborne ships can t mo ve under sail and must be r owed. K eelboats and Rowboats ar e used on lak es and riv ers. If going downstr eam, add the speed of the curr ent (typically 3 miles per hour) t o the speed of the v ehicle. These v ehicles can t be r owed against any signicant current, but the y can be pulled upstr eam b y draft animals on the shor es. A Rowboat can be carried and weighs 100 pounds. Crew A ship lar ger than a K eelboat or Rowboat needs a cr ew of skilled hir elings (see  Services  later in this chapter) t o function. The minimum number of skilled hir elings needed t o crew a ship depends on the type of ship, as shown in the table. Passengers The table lists the number of Small and Medium passengers the ship can accommodate using hammocks. A ship outtted with priv ate accommodations can carr y one-fth as many passengers. A passenger usually pa ys 5 SP per da y for a hammock, but prices can v ary from ship t o ship. A small priv ate cabin usually costs 2 GP per da y. Damage Threshold If a v ehicle has a damage thr eshold (see the rules glossar y), its noted in the table. Ship Repair Repairs t o a damaged ship can be made while the v essel is ber thed. Repairing 1 Hit P oint of damage r equir es 1 da y and costs 20 GP for materials and labor . If the r epairs ar e made in a location wher e supplies and skilled labor ar e abundant, such as a city ship yard, the r epair time and cost ar e halv ed. Airborne and W aterborne V ehicles Ship Speed Crew PassengersCargo (Tons)AC HPDamage ThresholdCo Airship 8 mph 10 20 1 13 300 40 G Galle y 4 mph 80  150 15 500 2030 G Keelboat 1 mph 1 6 1/2 15 100 10 3, Longship 3 mph 40 150 10 15 300 1510 G Rowboat 1 mph 1 3  11 50  50 Sailing Ship2 mph 20 20 100 15 300 1510 G Warship 2 mph 60 60 200 15 500 2025 G Services This section outlines ser vices and other expenses that adv entur ers might spend mone y on. Lifestyle Expenses Lifestyle expenses summariz e the cost of living in a fantasy world. They cover lodging, food, equipment maintenance, and other necessities. At the star t of each week or month (DM s choice), choose a lif estyle belowW retched, Squalid, P oor, Modest, Comfor table, W ealthy , or Arist ocraticand pa y the price t o sustain that lif estyle. Lifestyles ha ve no inher ent consequences, but the DM might tak e them int o account when determining risks or how others per ceive your char acter . Wretched (F ree) You sur vive via chance and charity . Youre often exposed t o natur al dangers as a r esult of sleeping outside. Squalid (1 SP per Da y) You spend the bar e minimum for y our necessities. Y ou might be exposed t o unhealthy conditions and oppor tunistic criminals. Poor (2 SP per Da y) You spend frugally for y our necessities. Modest (1 GP per Da y) You suppor t yourself at an a verage le vel. Comfor table (2 GP per Da y) You spend modestly for y our necessities and enjo y a few luxuries. Wealthy (4 GP per Da y) Youre accust omed t o the ner things in lif e and might ha ve ser vants. Arist ocratic (10 GP per Da y) You pa y for the best and might ha ve a staff that suppor ts your lif estyle. Others notice y our wealth and might encour age you to shar e it, either legally or other wise. Food, Drink, and Lodging The F ood, Drink, and Lodging table giv es prices for food and a single night s lodging. Prices for daily lodging and meals are included in y our lif estyle s expenses. Food, Drink, and Lodging Item Cost Ale (mug) 4 CP Bread (loaf ) 2 CP Cheese (wedge) 1 SP Inn Sta y per Da y Squalid 7 CP Poor 1 SP Modest 5 SP Comfor table 8 SP Wealthy 2 GP Arist ocratic 4 GP Meal Squalid 1 CP Poor 2 CP Modest 1 SP Comfor table 2 SP Wealthy 3 SP Arist ocratic 6 SP Wine (bottle) Common 2 SP Fine 10 GP Travel Drivers or cr ew hir ed to conduct passengers t o their destinations char ge the r ates on the Travel table, plus any t olls or additional expenses. Travel Service Cost Coach ride between t owns 3 CP per mile Coach ride within a city 1 CP per mile Road or gate t oll 1 CP Ship s passage 1 SP per mile Hirelings Skilled hir elings include any one hir ed to per form a ser vice that inv olves a pr ociency (including weapon, t ool, or skill): a mercenar y, an ar tisan, a scribe, or the lik e. The pa y shown on the Hir elings table is a minimum; some exper t hirelings requir e mor e pa y. Untr ained hir elings ar e hir ed for work that r equir es no par ticular pr ociencies; the y include labor ers and por ters. Hirelings Service Cost Skilled hir eling 2 GP per da y Untrained hir eling 2 SP per da y Messenger 2 CP per mile Spellcasting Most settlements contain individuals who ar e willing t o cast spells in ex change for pa yment. If a spell has expensiv e components, add the cost of those components t o the cost listed in the Spellcasting Ser vices table. The higher the le vel of a desir ed spell, the har der it is t o nd someone t o cast it. Spellcasting Ser vices Spell Le vel Availability Cost Cantrip Village, t own, or city 30 GP 1 Village, t own, or city 50 GP 2 Village, t own, or city 200 GP 3 Town or city only 300 GP 45 Town or city only 2,000 GP 68 City only 20,000 GP 9 City only 100,000 GP Magic Items Adventur es hold the pr omisebut not a guar anteeof nding magic items. Hundr eds of magic items ar e detailed in the Dungeon Master s Guide , since the DM decides when y ou nd such an item. Her es what y ou need t o know about using magic items. Identifying a Magic Item Some magic items ar e indistinguishable fr om their nonmagical counterpar ts, while others ar e conspicuously magical. Handling a magic item is enough t o giv e you a sense that it is extr aordinar y, but learning a magic item s proper ties isn t automatic. The Identify spell is the fastest wa y to reveal an item s proper ties. Alternativ ely, you can focus on one magic item during a Shor t Rest while being in physical contact with the item. A t the end of the r est, y ou learn its pr oper ties and how t o use them (but not any curse the item might bear). Sometimes a magic item carries a clue t o its pr oper ties. The command wor d to activ ate a ring might be etched inside the band, or a f eather ed design might hint that it s a Ring of F eather F alling . Wearing or experimenting with an item can also off er hints about its pr oper ties. In the specic case of P otions, a little taste is enough t o tell the taster what a potion does. Other items might r equir e mor e experimentation. F or example, if your char acter puts on a Ring of Swimming , the DM might sa y, Your mo vement f eels str angely uid.  Perhaps y ou then dive int o a riv er to see what happens. The DM would then sa y you swim unexpectedly well. Attunement Some magic items r equir e a cr eatur e to form a bondcalled A ttunementwith them befor e the cr eatur e can use an item s magical pr oper ties. Without becoming attuned t o an item that r equir es A ttunement, y ou gain only its nonmagical benets unless its description states other wise. F or example, a magic Shield that r equir es A ttunement pr ovides the benets of a normal Shield if y ou ar ent attuned t o it, but none of its magical pr oper ties. Attune during a Shor t Rest Attuning t o an item r equir es you to spend a Shor t Rest focused on only that item while being in physical contact with it (this can t be the same Shor t Rest used t o learn the item s proper ties). This focus can tak e the form of weapon pr actice (for a W eapon), meditation (for a W and), or some other appr opriate activity . If the Shor t Rest is interrupted, the Attunement attempt fails. Other wise, at the end of the Shor t Rest, y oure attuned t o the magic item and can access its full magical capabilities. No Mor e Than Three Items You can be attuned t o no mor e than thr ee magic items at a time. Any attempt t o attune t o a four th item fails; y ou must end y our A ttunement t o an item rst. Additionally , you can t attune t o mor e than one cop y of an item. F or example, y ou cant attune t o mor e than one Ring of Pr otection at a time. Ending A ttunement Your A ttunement t o an item ends if y ou no longer satisfy the pr erequisites for A ttunement, if the item has been mor e than 100 f eet awa y for at least 24 hours, if y ou die, or if another cr eatur e attunes t o the item. Y ou can also v oluntarily end A ttunement b y spending another Shor t Rest focused on the item unless the item is cursed. Wearing and Wielding Items Using a magic item s proper ties might mean wearing or wielding it. A magic item meant t o be worn must be donned in the intended fashion: boots go on f eet, glo ves on hands, hats and helmets on a head, and rings on a nger . Magic armor must be donned, a Shield str apped t o the arm, a cloak fastened about the shoulders. A weapon must be held. In most cases, a magic item that s meant t o be worn can t a cr eatur e regar dless of siz e or build. Magic garments ar e made t o be easily adjustable, or the y magically adjust themselv es to the wear er. Multiple Items of the Same Kind You can t wear mor e than one of cer tain magic items. Y ou can t normally wear mor e than one pair of footwear , one pair of glo ves or gauntlets, one pair of br acers, one suit of armor , one item of headwear , or one cloak. The DM might mak e exceptions. Paired Items Items that come in pairssuch as boots, br acers, gauntlets, and glo vesimpar t their benets only if both items of the pair ar e worn. F or example, a char acter wearing a Boot of Striding and Springing on one foot and a Boot of Elv enkind on the other foot gains no benet fr om either . Crafting E quipment Using the rules below , char acters can mak e nonmagical items, Potions of Healing , and Spell Scr olls. Crafting Nonmagical Items To craft a nonmagical item, y ou need t ools, r aw materials, and time, each of which is detailed below . If you meet the requir ements, y ou mak e the item, and y ou can use it or sell it at its normal price. Tools This chapter s Tools  section lists which t ools ar e requir ed to mak e cer tain items. The DM assigns r equir ed tools for items not listed ther e. You must use the r equir ed tool t o mak e an item and ha ve prociency with that t ool. Any one who helps y ou must also have prociency with it. Raw Materials To mak e an item, y ou need r aw materials wor th half its pur chase cost (r ound down). F or example, y ou need 750 GP of raw materials t o mak e Plate Armor , which sells for 1,500 GP . The DM determines whether appr opriate r aw materials ar e available. Time To determine how many da ys (working 8 hours a da y) it tak es to mak e an item, divide its pur chase cost in GP b y 10 (round a fr action up t o a da y). F or example, y ou need 5 da ys to mak e a Hea vy Cr ossbow , which sells for 50 GP . If an item r equir es multiple da ys, the da ys needn t be consecutiv e. Char acters can combine their effor ts to shor ten the cr afting time. Divide the time needed t o create an item b y the number of char acters working on it. Normally , only one other char acter can assist y ou, but the DM might allow mor e assistants. Brewing P otions of Healing A char acter who has pr ociency with the Herbalism Kit can cr eate a Potion of Healing . Doing so r equir es using that kit and 25 GP of r aw material o ver the course of 1 da y (8 hours of work). Scribing Spell Scr olls A spellcaster can tr ansf er a spell t o a scr oll and cr eate a Spell Scr oll, using the rules below . Time and Cost Scribing a scr oll tak es an amount of time and mone y based on the le vel of the spell, as shown in the Spell Scr oll Costs table . For each da y of inscription, y ou must work for 8 hours. If a scr oll requir es multiple da ys, those da ys needn t be consecutiv e. Prerequisites for the Scribe To scribe a scr oll, y ou must ha ve prociency in the Arcana skill or with Calligr apher s Supplies and ha ve the spell prepar ed on each da y of the inscription. Y ou must also ha ve at hand any Material components r equir ed b y the spell; if the spell consumes its Material components, the y are consumed only when y ou complete the scr oll. The scr olls spell uses y our spell sa ve DC and spell attack bonus. Cantrips If the scribed spell is a cantrip, the v ersion on the scr oll works as if the caster wer e your le vel. Spell Scr oll Costs Spell Le vel Time Cost Cantrip 1 da y 15 GP 1 1 da y 25 GP 2 3 da ys 100 GP 3 5 da ys 150 GP 4 10 da ys 1,000 GP 5 25 da ys 1,500 GP 6 40 da ys 10,000 GP 7 50 da ys 12,500 GP 8 60 da ys 15,000 GP 9 120 da ys 50,000 GP IN THE SKIES OF EBERRON, THE INVEN TOR VI AND HER FI XERS ESCAPE THE LORD OF BL ADES AND A PL UMME TING AIRSHIP THAT BURNS WI TH GREEN FL AME!ARTIST: CAIO MON TEIRO SIMPLE MELEE WEAPONSARTIST: POL AR ENGINE, JOHN GRELL O, MICH AEL BROUSSARD SIMPLE RANGED WEAPONS MARTIAL MELEE WEAPONS MARTIAL RANGED WEAPONS LIGH T ARMOR AND SHIELDSARTIST: POL AR ENGINE MEDIUM ARMOR HEA VY ARMOR A WARLOCK CH ANNELS M AGIC THROUGH AN ARCANE FOCUSARTIST: IGNATIUS BUDI LAMP AND NE TARTIST: JOHN GRELL O, POL AR ENGINE ARTIST: PATRIK HELL A WIZ ARD AND HER F AMILI AR SPEND AN AF TERNOON SHOPPINGARTIST: KATERIN A LADONPREV CH APTER NEXT CHAPTER Chapter 6: E quipment Coins Coin V alues Weapons Armor Tools Adventuring Gear Mounts and V ehicles Services Magic Items Crafting E quipment SOURCES DUNGEONS & DRA GONS PLAYERS H ANDBOOK EQUIPMEN T 