CHAPTER 8: BASTIONS	P334

-- 267 of 318 --

A Bastion by the sea is more than just an adventurer's getaway A lot can happen here to fuel stories in the campaign
Noor Rahman
A Bastion is a location that belongs to a player character: a home, a stronghold, and a place of power that the character develops over the course of a
campaign. A Bastion offers a character temporary refuge from the dangerous world of adventuring, and it provides opportunities for a character to craft
magic items, conduct research, harvest poisons, build ships, and carry out a range of other activities.
As DM, you decide whether Bastions are available in a campaign. Bastions are best suited to campaigns that allow characters to return to their Bastions
during intervals when they're not actively adventuring. Not every character needs to have a Bastion. It's fine for some players in your campaign to opt in to
Bastion ownership and others to opt out.
There's no need to choose between going on adventures and commanding a Bastion; a character can do both at once. A Bastion has special facilities that
generate benefits, and these facilities can also undertake projects while the character is otherwise occupied.
Most importantly, a Bastion is a creative playground for a player and a shared storytelling space in the campaign. Be as permissive as you can with the
stories players tell in their Bastions, but players should know their control might be limited by the campaign's larger story, which you strive to make fun for
everyone.
GAINING A BASTION
If you allow Bastions in your campaign, characters acquire their Bastions when they reach level 5. You and the players can decide together how these
Bastions come into being. A character might inherit or receive a parcel of land on which to build their Bastion (see "Marks of Prestige" in chapter 3), or they
might take a preexisting structure and refurbish it. It's fair to assume that work has been going on behind the scenes of the campaign during a character's
early adventuring career, so the Bastion is ready when the character reaches level 5.
✏
P334

-- 268 of 318 --

The shape, style, and function of a character's Bastion are up to the player to determine. For example, a Wizard might build a tower, a Cleric might establish a
shrine, a Fighter might build a fortified keep or similar stronghold, and a Rogue might establish a guildhall or lodge. Characters of other classes might
choose one of these forms or combine them—a Paladin's Bastion might be similar to a Cleric's shrine but as fortified as a Fighter's stronghold. And multiple
characters can combine their Bastions to form a single large structure (see "Bastion Map").
Every Bastion has facilities that serve basic needs as well as special ones, such as libraries, menageries, and workshops (see "Basic Facilities" and "Special
Facilities").
BASTION TURNS
As time passes in the campaign, players take Bastion turns to reflect the activity occurring in their Bastions, whether or not the characters are present. On a
Bastion turn, a character can issue orders to the special facilities in their Bastion or issue the Maintain order to the entire Bastion (see "Orders").
FREQUENCY OF BASTION TURNS
By default, a Bastion turn occurs every 7 days of in-game time. Here are common examples of players taking one or more Bastion turns:
The characters are on a long journey away from their Bastions. After the characters have been away for 7 days, you might say, "Time for a Bastion turn.
Since you're not there, we'll assume you issue the Maintain order for your Bastions." Then roll for events as described in the "Bastion Events" section in
this chapter.
The characters spend 7 days or more in their Bastions between adventures. You might say, "You have six weeks to spend in your Bastions. Go ahead
and resolve six Bastion turns."
The characters return to their Bastions in the midst of an adventure. You might say, "You have just enough time to take a Bastion turn before you leave
again in the morning."
The characters are adventuring near their Bastions and resting in their Bastions at night. You might say, "It's been a week since your last Bastion turn, so
you can take one now."
You can slow the frequency of Bastion turns to better serve the needs of your players and your campaign. For example, if the characters have months
between adventures, you can call for a Bastion turn every month instead of every 7 days, so the characters aren't issuing so many orders or reaping too many
benefits at once.
P334
P334

-- 269 of 318 --

A Rogue's Bastion on the outskirts of town contains a Guildhall, a Pub, and more!
Noor Rahman
BASTION MAP
Encourage players to create floor plans of their characters' Bastions, configuring its facilities as they see fit and using the same techniques you use to create
dungeon maps (see "Dungeons" in chapter 3 and "Adventure Maps" in chapter 4).
In addition to basic and special facilities (described later in this chapter), a Bastion can have the following features:
Closets. A basic or special facility can have one or more closets, washrooms, or similar enclosures. The closets must be inside the facility and can't increase
the facility's area in squares. These features are free.
Corridors, Ramps, and Staircases. A facility can contain one or more corridors, ramps, or staircases leading to other facilities in the Bastion. These features
are free.
Defensive Walls. A character can add defensive walls around their Bastion. A defensive wall is 20 feet high and may include a walkway along its top, with a
means to access it (such as a ladder or lift). Each 5-foot square of defensive wall takes 10 days to build and costs 250 GP. If a character's Bastion is
completely enclosed by defensive walls and it comes under attack (see "Bastion Events" at the end of this chapter), reduce by 2 the number of dice rolled
to determine how many Bastion Defenders are lost in the attack.
Doors and Windows. Each facility comes with one or more doors and shuttered windows, placed wherever the player sees fit. See "Doors" in chapter 3 for
kinds of doors to choose from, including locked doors, secret doors, and portcullises. These features are free.
COMBINING BASTIONS
Two or more players can combine their characters' Bastions into a single structure. Doing so doesn't change the number of special facilities each Bastion can
have, how those special facilities work, or who issues orders to each Bastion. Each Bastion retains its own hirelings, which can't be sent to or shared with
another Bastion. Bastion Defenders are handled differently: if some event deprives one character's Bastion of defenders, another character can apply all or
some of those losses to their Bastion instead, provided the two Bastions are combined.
FACILITY SPACE
The amount of space in a basic or special facility determines its maximum area in 5-foot squares, as shown in the Facility Space table. A player can configure
the squares of a facility as they please on their Bastion's map. The squares can be stacked so that a facility's area is distributed over multiple levels or stories.
Facility Space
Space 	Maximum Area
Cramped 	4 squares
Roomy 	16 squares
Vast 	36 squares
BASIC FACILITIES
A character's Bastion starts with two free basic facilities, which the character's player chooses from the Basic Facilities list below. One of the chosen facilities
is Cramped, and the other is Roomy (see the Facility Space table). A Bastion can have more than one of each basic facility.
BASIC FACILIT IES
Bedroom
Dining Room
Parlor
Courtyard
Kitchen
Storage
A basic facility comes with nonmagical furnishings and decor appropriate for that facility.
Basic facilities don't have any game effects, but they can inspire roleplaying opportunities and enhance a Bastion's verisimilitude. A Bastion with a kitchen is
functionally the same as one without, but the former gives you and your players a fun setting to start game sessions, have in-character discussions, or
introduce new NPCs.
✏
P334
P334
P335
P335
P335

-- 270 of 318 --

A character can add new basic facilities or enlarge existing ones by spending money and time, as discussed in the sections that follow. Any number of basic
facilities can be added or enlarged at the same time. A character doesn't need to be in their Bastion while basic facilities are being added or enlarged.
ADDING BASIC FACILITIES
A character can add a basic facility to their Bastion by spending money and time. The cost of adding a basic facility and the time required depend on the
facility's space, as shown on the table below.
Facility Space 	Cost 	Time Required
Cramped 	500 GP 	20 days
Roomy 	1,000 GP 	45 days
Vast 	3,000 GP 	125 days
ENLARGING BASIC FACILITIES
There is no in-game benefit to enlarging a basic facility, but a character might enlarge a facility for cosmetic reasons or to increase the Bastion's size.
A character can spend money and time to increase the space of a basic facility in their Bastion by one category, as shown on the table below.
Space Increase 	Cost 	Time Required
Cramped to Roomy 	500 GP 	25 days
Roomy to Vast 	2,000 GP 	80 days
SPECIAL FACILITIES
Special facilities are Bastion locations where certain activities yield game benefits. A character's Bastion initially has two special facilities of the character's
choice for which they qualify. Each special facility can be chosen only once unless its description says otherwise.
Unlike basic facilities, special facilities can't be bought; a character gains them through level advancement. At level 9, a character gains two additional special
facilities of their choice for which they qualify; they gain one additional facility at level 13 and another at level 17. The Special Facility Acquisition table shows
the total number of special facilities in a character's Bastion. Each new special facility immediately becomes part of the character's Bastion when the
character reaches the level.
Each time a character gains a level, that character can replace one of their Bastion's special facilities with another for which the character qualifies.
Special Facility Acquisition
Level 	Special Facilities
5 	2
9 	4
13 	5
17 	6
REQUIREMENTS
Each special facility has a level. A character must be that level or higher to gain that facility. A special facility might also have a prerequisite the character must
meet to gain that facility. For example, only a character who can use an Arcane Focus or a tool as a Spellcasting Focus can have an Arcane Study.
SPACE
A special facility occupies a certain amount of space (see "Facility Space"). A player can configure the squares of a special facility as desired on the Bastion's
map. A special facility can be enlarged to grant additional benefits if its description says so.
HIRELINGS
A special facility comes with one or more hirelings who work in the facility, maintain it, and execute Bastion orders there, as described in the next section. A
player can assign names and personalities to hirelings in their character's Bastion using the same tools DMs use to create NPCs (see chapter 3).
P335
P335
P335
P335
P335
P336

-- 271 of 318 --

Each special facility in a Bastion generates enough income to pay the salary of its hirelings. Hirelings follow the orders they're given and are loyal to the
Bastion's owner.
ORDERS
On a Bastion turn, a character in their Bastion can issue special orders—called Bastion orders—to one or more of their Bastion's special facilities. A character
needn't issue orders to all the special facilities in their Bastion on a given Bastion turn.
The Maintain order is unusual; it is issued to the whole Bastion rather than to one or more special facilities. If a character isn't in their Bastion on a given Bastion
turn, the Bastion acts as though it were issued the Maintain order on that turn unless the owner can communicate with the Bastion hirelings using the Sending
spell or similar magic.
The orders are as follows:
CRAFT
Hirelings in the special facility craft an item that can be made in that facility. During the time required to craft an item, the facility can't be used to craft anything
else, even if a special ability allows the facility to carry out two orders at once. The hirelings have proficiencies with Artisan's Tools as specified in the facility's
description.
EMPOWER
The special facility confers a temporary empowerment to you or someone else.
HARVEST
Hirelings gather a resource produced in the special facility. During the time required to harvest a resource, the facility can't be used to harvest anything else,
even if a special ability allows the facility to carry out two orders at once.
MAINT AIN
A Bastion grows over time
Noor Rahman
All the Bastion's hirelings focus on maintaining the Bastion rather than executing orders in special facilities. Issuing this order prohibits other orders from
being issued to the Bastion on the current Bastion turn. Each time the Maintain order is issued, the DM rolls once on the Bastion Events table at the end of this
chapter. Bastion events are resolved before the next Bastion turn.
RECRUIT
Hirelings recruit creatures to the Bastion. These creatures might include one or more Bastion Defenders, whose main purpose is to defend the Bastion if it is
attacked (see "Bastion Events" at the end of this chapter). The Bastion generates enough income to provide for the needs of its Bastion Defenders.
RESEARCH
Hirelings in the special facility gather information.
TRADE
Hirelings buy and sell goods or services stored or produced in this special facility.
P336
P336
P336
P336
P336
✏
P336
P336
P336

-- 272 of 318 --

SPECIAL FACILITY DESCRIPTIONS
Special facilities are presented in alphabetical order. The Special Facilities table lists all the special facilities presented in this section, along with their
prerequisites and orders. Some facilities confer additional benefits, specified in their descriptions.
Special Facilities
Level Special Facility Prerequisite 	Order
5 Arcane Study Ability to use an Arcane Focus or a tool as a
Spellcasting Focus Craft
5 Armory 	None 	Trade
5 Barrack 	None 	Recruit
5 Garden 	None 	Harvest
5 Library 	None 	Research
5 Sanctuary Ability to use a Holy Symbol or Druidic Focus as a
Spellcasting Focus Craft
5 Smithy 	None 	Craft
5 Storehouse 	None 	Trade
5 Workshop 	None 	Craft
9 Gaming Hall None 	Trade
9 Greenhouse None 	Harvest
9 Laboratory 	None* 	Craft
9 Sacristy Ability to use a Holy Symbol or Druidic Focus as a
Spellcasting Focus Craft
9 Scriptorium 	None* 	Craft
9 Stable 	None 	Trade
9 Teleportation
Circle None 	Recruit
9 Theater 	None 	Empower
9 Training Area None 	Empower
9 Trophy Room None 	Research
13 Archive 	None 	Research
13 Meditation
Chamber None 	Empower
13 Menagerie 	None 	Recruit
13 Observatory Ability to use a Spellcasting Focus 	Empower
13 Pub 	None 	Research
13 Reliquary Ability to use a Holy Symbol or Druidic Focus as a
Spellcasting Focus Harvest
17 Demiplane Ability to use an Arcane Focus or a tool as a
Spellcasting Focus Empower
17 Guildhall 	Expertise in a skill 	Recruit
*Certain orders that can be issued to these facilities have additional prerequisites.
P336

-- 273 of 318 --

Level Special Facility Prerequisite 	Order
17 Sanctum Ability to use a Holy Symbol or Druidic Focus as a
Spellcasting Focus Empower
17 War Room 	Fighting Style feature or Unarmored Defense feature Recruit
*Certain orders that can be issued to these facilities have additional prerequisites.
Irina Nordsol
[–]
Loading Arcane Study...
[–]
Loading Archive...
[–]
Loading Armory...
[–]
Loading Barrack...
[–]
Loading Demiplane...
[–]
Loading Gaming Hall...
[–]
Loading Garden...
[–]
Loading Greenhouse...
[–]
Loading Guildhall...
[–]
Loading Laboratory...
✏

-- 274 of 318 --

[–]
Loading Library...
[–]
Loading Meditation Chamber...
[–]
Loading Menagerie...
[–]
Loading Observatory...
[–]
Loading Pub...
[–]
Loading Reliquary...
[–]
Loading Sacristy...
[–]
Loading Sanctuary...
[–]
Loading Sanctum...
[–]
Loading Scriptorium...
[–]
Loading Smithy...
[–]
Loading Stable...
[–]
Loading Storehouse...
[–]
Loading Teleportation Circle...
[–]
Loading Theater...
[–]
Loading Training Area...
[–]
Loading Trophy Room...

-- 275 of 318 --

[–]
Loading War Room...
[–]
Loading Workshop...
BASTION EVENTS
Immediately after a character issues the Maintain order to their Bastion, the DM rolls once on the Bastion Events table to determine what event, if any, befalls
the Bastion before the next Bastion Turn. If an event occurs, the DM reads the event aloud to the player whose character controls that Bastion. (All the events
are described in the sections following the table.) The event is resolved immediately, with the player and DM working together to expand story details as
needed. If multiple characters issue the Maintain order on the same Bastion turn, roll once on the table for each of them, resolving each event separately even
if the Bastions are combined.
Bastion events occur only when a Bastion is operating under the Maintain order, which often means that the Bastion's owner isn't present in the Bastion at the
time. That means these events can be opportunities for the player to take on the role of the Bastion's hirelings and roleplay their reactions to these events.
The DM can even turn a Bastion event into a cutscene where each player takes on the role of one of the Bastion's hirelings (under the guidance of the player
whose character owns the Bastion).
Bastion Events
1d100 	Event
01-50 	All Is Well
51-55 	Attack
56-58 	Criminal Hireling
59-63 	Extraordinary Opportunity
64-72 	Friendly Visitors
73-76 	Guest
77-79 	Lost Hirelings
80-83 	Magical Discovery
84-91 	Refugees
92-98 	Request for Aid
99-00 	Treasure
EVENT DESCRIPTIONS
The events from the Bastion Events table are detailed here in alphabetical order.
ALL IS WELL
Nothing significant happens. Roll on the following table, fleshing out the details as you see fit.
1d8 	Details
1 	Accident reports are way down.
2 	The leak in the roof has been fixed.
3 	No vermin infestations to report.
4 	You-Know-Who lost their spectacles again.
5 	One of your hirelings adopted a stray dog.
6 	You received a lovely letter from a friend.
7 	Some practical joker has been putting rotten eggs in people's boots.
P350
P350
P350

-- 276 of 318 --

1d8 	Details
8 	Someone thought they saw a ghost.
BASTION TRACKER
Players can use the Bastion Tracker sheet as a record of the facilities and other characteristics of their Bastions. Encourage your players to list
their hirelings on this sheet and develop them more fully as NPCs on separate sheets (perhaps using the NPC Tracker in chapter 3). Similarly, the
Bastion Tracker provides space to indicate the space of each special facility, but encourage players to draw maps of their Bastions (see "Bastion
Map" earlier in this chapter).
AT T ACK
A hostile force attacks your Bastion but is defeated.
Roll 6d6; for each die that rolls a 1, one Bastion Defender dies. Remove these Bastion Defenders from your Bastion's roster. If the Bastion has zero Bastion
Defenders, one of the Bastion's special facilities (determined randomly) is damaged and forced to shut down.
A special facility that shuts down can't be used on your next Bastion turn, after which it is repaired and made operational again at no cost to you.
CRIMINAL HIRELING
One of your Bastion's hirelings has a criminal past that comes to light when officials or bounty hunters visit your Bastion with a warrant for the hireling's arrest.
You can retain the hireling by paying a bribe of 1d6 × 100 GP. Otherwise, the hireling is arrested and taken away. If this loss leaves one of your facilities
without any hirelings, that facility can't be used on your next Bastion turn. The hireling is then replaced at no cost to you.
EXT RAORDINARY OPPORT UNIT Y
A hero's Bastion hosts a spring festival to which everyone is invited
Ralph Horsley
Your Bastion is given the opportunity to host an important festival or celebration, fund the research of a powerful spellcaster, or appease a domineering
noble. Work with the DM to determine the details.
P350
P350
P350
P351
✏

-- 277 of 318 --

If you seize the opportunity, you must pay 500 GP to cover costs. In return, your Bastion gains a sudden influx of recognition or attention, prompting the DM
to roll again on the Bastion Events table (rerolling this result if it comes up again).
If you decline the opportunity, you don't pay the money and nothing else happens.
FRIENDLY VISIT ORS
Friendly visitors come to your Bastion, seeking to use one of your special facilities. They offer 1d6 × 100 GP for the brief use of that facility. For example, a
knight might want your Smithy to replace a horseshoe or repair a damaged weapon or suit of armor, or sages might need your Arcane Study to help them
settle a dispute. Their use of the facility doesn't interrupt any orders you've issued to it.
GUEST
A Friendly guest comes to stay at your Bastion. Determine the guest by rolling on the following table, and work with your DM to flesh out the details.
1d4 	Guest
1
The guest is an individual of great renown who stays for 7 days. At the end of
their stay, the guest gives you a letter of recommendation (see "Marks of
Prestige" in chapter 3).
2
The guest requests sanctuary while avoiding persecution for their beliefs or
crimes. They depart 7 days later, but not before offering you a gift of 1d6 ×
100 GP.
3
The guest is a mercenary, giving you one additional Bastion Defender. The
guest doesn't require a facility to house them, and they stay until you send
them away or they're killed.
4
The guest is a Friendly monster, such as a brass dragon or a treant. If your
Bastion is attacked while this monster is your guest, it defends your Bastion,
and you lose no Bastion Defenders. The monster leaves after it defends your
Bastion once or when you send it away.
LOST HIRELINGS
One of your Bastion's special facilities (determined randomly) loses its hirelings. The cause of their departure is up to you. The facility can't be used on your
next Bastion turn, but the hirelings are replaced at no cost to you at that point.
MAGICAL DISCOVERY
Your hirelings discover or accidentally create an Uncommon magic item of your choice at no cost to you. The magic item must be a Potion or Scroll.
REFUGEES
A group of 2d4 refugees fleeing from a monster attack, a natural disaster, or some other calamity seeks refuge in your Bastion. If your Bastion lacks a basic
facility large enough to house them, the refugees camp right outside the Bastion. The refugees offer you 1d6 × 100 GP as payment for your hospitality and
protection. They stay until you find them a new home or a hostile force attacks your Bastion.
REQUEST FOR AID
Your Bastion is called on to help a local leader. Perhaps there's a search on for a missing person, or brigands are plaguing the area. If you help, you must
dispatch one or more Bastion Defenders. Roll 1d6 for each Bastion Defender you send. If the total is 10 or higher, the problem is solved and you earn a
reward of 1d6 × 100 GP. If the total is less than 10, the problem is still solved, but the reward is halved and one of your Bastion Defenders is killed. Remove
that Bastion Defender from your Bastion's roster.
TREASURE
Your Bastion acquires an art object or a magic item determined by rolling on the table below and then rolling on the specified table in chapter 7. How the
Bastion acquires this treasure is up to you. It might represent an inheritance, a gift from a guest or an admirer, a theft, or a fortunate discovery. If you're in the
Bastion, you can claim the treasure immediately; otherwise, it is placed in storage until you can claim it.
P352
P352
P352
P352
P352
P352
P352

-- 278 of 318 --

1d100 	Treasure
01-40 	Roll on the 25 GP Art Objects table.
41-63 	Roll on the 250 GP Art Objects table.
64-73 	Roll on the 750 GP Art Objects table.
74-75 	Roll on the 2,500 GP Art Objects table.
76-90 Roll on a Common Magic Items table of your choice (Arcana, Armaments,
Implements, or Relics).
91-98 Roll on an Uncommon Magic Items table of your choice (Arcana, Armaments,
Implements, or Relics).
99-00 Roll on a Rare Magic Items table of your choice (Arcana, Armaments,
Implements, or Relics).
FALL OF A BASTION
A player character can lose their Bastion in the following ways:
Divestiture. A character can give up their Bastion anytime, releasing the Bastion's hirelings and abandoning the location. The divested Bastion is quickly
vacated, is eventually looted, and might even be burned to the ground.
Neglect. If a character issues no orders to their Bastion for a number of consecutive Bastion turns equal to the character's level (typically because the
character is dead or otherwise out of commission), the hirelings abandon the Bastion and the site is eventually looted. If the character returns later, they can
start a new Bastion, perhaps building it amid the ruins of the old one.
Ruination. Drawing the Ruin card from the Deck of Many Things (as described in chapter 7) instantly deprives a character of their Bastion. When such an event
occurs, the player can decide what terrible fate befalls the Bastion. The Bastion might be sacked by enemies or destroyed by an earthquake, for example.
Regardless of how the Bastion falls, the player can work with the DM to establish a new Bastion and determine how it comes into being. Use the Special
Facility Acquisition table to determine how many special facilities come with it. The new Bastion also starts with two basic facilities (one Cramped and one
Roomy) of the player's choice.
P352

-- 279 of 318 --

Download PDF
APPENDIX A: LORE GLOSSARY
This appendix provides brief descriptions for many of the D&D game's most famous heroes, villains, creatures, locations, and materials. The entries are
presented in alphabetical order.
ACERERAK
Acererak
(ah-SAIR-er-rack) is a powerful lich who travels between worlds and takes pleasure in devouring the souls of adventurers, whom he lures into trap-
ridden dungeons to suffer horrible deaths. The most famous of such dungeons is the Tomb of Horrors, hidden in the Vast Swamp in the Greyhawk setting
(see "Greyhawk Gazetteer" in chapter 5); another lies under the lost city of Omu in the jungles of Chult in the Forgotten Realms setting (described in the
adventure Tomb of Annihilation).
P354
P354

-- 280 of 318 --

Acererak
Alexandre Honoré
ADAMANTINE
Adamantine is one of the hardest substances in existence, a dark metal found in meteorites and extraordinary mineral veins. (See the Adamantine Armor and
Adamantine Weapon magic items in chapter 7.)
ALUSTRIEL SILVERHAND
Alustriel
(ah-LOOSE-tree-ell) Silverhand is the second of seven daughters of Mystra, a deity of magic in the Forgotten Realms. (Laeral Silverhand is Alustriel's
younger sister.) She ruled the city of Silverymoon for centuries but stepped down from that position a little over a century ago to promote goodness and
compassion in the multiverse. She has befriended adventurers such as Drizzt Do'Urden and worked alongside the Harpers in pursuit of these aims.
ASHARDALON
✏
P354
P354
P354

-- 281 of 318 --

The terrible red dragon Ashardalon
(ah-SHAR-duh-lawn) is legendary across the multiverse for his rampages, which turned lush grasslands into ashen plains
and caused mighty citadels to be swallowed into the earth. As he grew aware of worlds beyond his home, he recruited a balor demon named Ammet, the
Eater of Souls, to help him extend his reach and increase his power. When an adventurer dealt a mortal blow to Ashardalon's heart, the dragon replaced the
injured organ with the balor. Ashardalon's features then took on a fiendish cast, and his eyes now glow with demonic flame. A secretive cult of Ashardalon's
followers and spawn serves him on the Material Plane, furthering the dragon's schemes to attain godhood.
BABA YAGA
Baba Yaga
(BAH-bah YAH-gah) is an arch-hag known as the Mother of All Witches. She is also the adoptive mother of Iggwilv. Baba Yaga is famous for her
chicken-legged hut, in which she travels across the planes of the multiverse. This impatient, foul-tempered hag is a font of knowledge about all things
magical.
BAHAMUT
Bahamut
(ba-HA-mutt) is one of the primordial dragons who (along with Tiamat) is said to have created the First World. For practical purposes, he is a god—
ageless and immortal—who has dwelled in Mount Celestia (see chapter 6) since the destruction of the First World. In the Dragonlance setting, where he is
called Paladine
(PAL-a-deen), he is the greatest of the gods of good. On other worlds, he is revered as a god of justice and nobility and is favored by
Paladins.
To metallic dragons, Bahamut is more like a king than a god. Individual dragons might owe Bahamut allegiance, respect him, pay tribute to him, and strive to
emulate him, but they don't worship him.
BALDUR'S GATE
The city of Baldur's Gate
(BAWL-durz GATE), in the Forgotten Realms setting, is a teeming metropolis haunted by the lingering influence of three evil gods
(Bane, Bhaal, and Myrkul) who refuse to stay dead. It's a place where a sword for hire can find a rich patron, join a secret guild, pursue killers for a bounty, or
aid desperate citizens. The city offers opportunities for good-hearted champions to fight against corruption and bring murderers to justice, while less moral
mercenaries find a good price for their services. Baldur's Gate hosts the most reliable and ruthless market on the Sword Coast. Information, treasures,
secrets, and souls can be bought or sold for the right price.
BAROVIA
Barovia
(buh-ROVE-ee-ah) is a Domain of Dread sequestered in the Shadowfell (see chapter 6)—a sort of spiritual prison for Strahd von Zarovich in his Castle
Ravenloft. It's also the name of a village in that domain.
BIGBY
Bigby
(BIG-bee) is a former apprentice of Mordenkainen. Though he began his career determined to use magic to dominate and control others, Bigby
eventually changed his ways and has worked hard to make amends for his past villainy. Mordenkainen welcomed Bigby into the adventuring company
known as the Citadel of Eight (which later became the Circle of Eight, described in chapter 5). Shy and soft-spoken, Bigby was often eclipsed by his mentor,
who taught Bigby how to control his ambitions. After years of adventuring, Bigby crafted a handful of spells that gained him widespread renown. Of these
spells, Bigby's Hand is his undisputed magnum opus.
A recent misadventure led to Bigby's untimely demise. After he was crushed to death by a frost giant's boulder, Bigby was the target of a Reincarnate spell.
The spell transformed Bigby from a human into a gnome. Before setting off on his next adventure, Bigby was overheard saying how curious he was to
experience the multiverse from a gnome's perspective.
BOO
P354
P354
P355
P355
P355
P355

-- 282 of 318 --

Boo is a hamster. More precisely, he is a miniature giant space hamster, a species native to Wildspace (see chapter 6) that is both sapient and telepathic.
Boo's adventures with Minsc, as well as the hamster's ferocity, have given Boo legendary status, particularly in the city of Baldur's Gate.
CASTLE RAVENLOFT
Castle Ravenloft
(RAY-ven-loft) is the heart of the domain of Barovia and the home of the vampire Strahd von Zarovich.
Ravenloft is also one of the most
famous dungeon adventures in the history of the D&D game, providing a horror-themed experience that inspired the creation of the Ravenloft setting and the
adventure Curse of Strahd.
COMPANIONS OF THE HALL, THE
Named for the dwarf stronghold of Mithral Hall in the Forgotten Realms setting, the Companions of the Hall is a group of heroic adventurers whose exploits
have spanned centuries and even crossed the bounds of death. Drizzt Do'Urden is the central figure in this party; all his companions have died and been
reincarnated in new forms in recent years. These other companions are Drizzt's wife, Cattie-Brie; his adoptive father, Bruenor Battlehammer; and his friends
Wulfgar and Regis.
COMPANY OF SEVEN, THE
The Company of Seven was a group of adventurers active hundreds of years ago in the Greyhawk setting. Its members included Heward, Keoghtom,
Murlynd, Nolzur, Quaal, Tasha (see Iggwilv), and Zagig (see Zagyg). Some of these adventurers achieved near-divine status, and most of them are
remembered for magic items that carry their names. The group inspired the formation of the Circle of Eight (described in chapter 5).
CORELLON
At the dawn of the multiverse, Corellon
(core-ELL-on or CORE-eh-lawn) danced from world to world and plane to plane. A being of consummate mutability
and infinite grace, Corellon is a whimsical shape-shifter, able to take the form of a chuckling stream, a teasing breeze, an incandescent beam, a school of fish,
or a flock of birds. Corellon's flamboyant, mercurial personality infuses every form the god adopts. Corellon loves wholeheartedly and takes pleasure from
every encounter with other divine beings of the multiverse.
According to legend, the first elves emerged from Corellon's shed blood, and they shared the god's changeable and audacious nature. Many elves, along
with members of other species, worship Corellon.
DELINA
Delina
(dell-EEN-ah) is a young elf Sorcerer who wields the unpredictable power of wild magic. Finding herself in trouble in the city of Baldur's Gate, she
accidentally reawakened the ancient hero of the city, Minsc, and got thrown into further adventures pursuing her lost twin brother.
DIANCASTRA
Diancastra
(DIE-ann-CAST-rah) is a demigod and a daughter of the divine ancestor of giants, Annam. She is a trickster, an adventurer, and a scholar of magic
who enjoys wandering the Material Plane in search of new curiosities and spells to learn. She longs to see the descendants of Annam—storm, cloud, fire,
frost, stone, and hill giants—restored to the position of honor and respect they held in ancient times.
DRIZZT DO'URDEN
Drizzt Do'Urden
(DRIZT doh-UR-den) is a drow exile from the city of Menzoberranzan and a fugitive from the wrath of Lolth (see chapter 6) and her priests. He
wandered the surface world and gathered a circle of friends who became known as the Companions of the Hall.
P355
P355
P355
P355
P355
P356
P356

-- 283 of 318 --

ELDER EVILS
The Elder Evils are a variety of entities whose existence dates to the beginnings of the multiverse—or possibly predates it. Some Elder Evils are creatures of
the Far Realm (see chapter 6), while others are akin to gods or primordial beings of the Elemental Planes. Some are thought to be imprisoned, while others
are said to be slumbering until they awaken in some apocalyptic cataclysm.
The names given to these terrible entities include such strange descriptions as Atropus, the World Born Dead; Dendar, the Night Serpent; Hadar, the Dark
Hunger; Haemnathuun, the Blood Lord; Ityak-Ortheel, the Elf-Eater; Kezef, the Chaos Hound; Kyuss, the Worm That Walks; the Queen of Chaos; Tharizdun, the
Chained God; Tyranthraxus, the Flamed One; and Zargon, the Returner. They are all forces of corruption and evil. Nothing good can come from their
influence. Bargains made with them end in catastrophe or death.
ELMINSTER
Elminster
(el-MIN-ster) is a powerful and ancient archmage in the Forgotten Realms setting. As one of Mystra's Chosen, divinely called and empowered by a
deity of magic, Elminster fosters magic and protects the fabric of magic in the world. Though this responsibility demands a certain amount of neutrality and
dispassionate judgment, Elminster has a fundamentally kind and compassionate heart.
EURYALE
One card in the Deck of Many Things (see chapter 7) bears a person's proper name, and the card's namesake, Euryale
(YUR-ee-ale or yur-EYE-a-lee), is the
subject of much speculation. Often assumed to be a fearsome demigod (perhaps the first medusa) or the wielder of a destructive curse, Euryale is actually a
key part of the story of the magical deck's creation. After befriending a princess named Asteria and spending many years in her dear friend's company,
Euryale was captured and sentenced to death by Asteria's father. Asteria pleaded with the gods to save her friend, and Istus (a god from the Greyhawk
setting; see chapter 5) intervened to help the pair rewrite their story, creating the
Deck of Many Things. The magic of the deck helped the two escape, and they
adventured together across the multiverse. Eventually, Euryale—having become an ancient, wise, and powerful Druid—settled in the Outlands (see chapter 6),
where she still sometimes acts as a patron, mentor, or ally for adventurers.
FALLBACKS, THE
Tessalynde is a young elf Rogue who dreams of leading the foremost adventuring party of the Forgotten Realms setting. While the crew she's gathered isn't
the stuff of legend yet, she's confident her guidance can get them there. Called the Fallbacks, the team includes Anson, a human Fighter too stubborn to stay
down; Cazrin, a self-taught, human Wizard determined to test her theoretical mettle against the real world; Baldric, a dwarf Cleric who refuses to tie himself to
a single deity when he can trade favors with them all; Lark, a tiefling Bard with as many secrets as songs; and Uggie, a pet otyugh.
FIRST WORLD, THE
Scholars speak of a primordial state, a single reality they call the First World, which preceded the Material Plane. Many of the peoples and monsters that
inhabit the worlds on the Material Plane originated there. After the First World was shattered by a great cataclysm—giving birth to the worlds that came in its
wake—the progeny of the first elves, dwarves, beholders, and other iconic creatures took root on world after world, like seeds scattered by a cosmic wind. If
the musings of these great sages are true, every world of the Material Plane is a reflection—or, in some cases, a distortion—of the First World.
FIZBAN
In the Dragonlance setting, Bahamut—who is known there as Paladine—dwelled among mortals in human guise for a time, aiding the forces of good against
Takhisis (see Tiamat). He appeared as a bumbling old mage named Fizban
(FIZZ-ban) the Fabulous.
P356
P356
P356
P356
P356
P356

-- 284 of 318 --

GREAT MODRON MARCH, THE
When the gears of the plane of Mechanus (see chapter 6) complete seventeen cycles—once every 289 years—the modron
(MOE-dron) leader, Primus,
sends a vast army of modrons across the Outer Planes. The purpose of this march is unclear. Most believe it to be a data-gathering mission meant to
ascertain the current state of the cosmos, but some see it as reconnaissance aimed at some future act of conquest. The march is long and dangerous, and
only a small number of modrons returns to Mechanus.
The Great Modron March
Zuzanna Wužyk
GRUUMSH
Gruumsh
(GROOMSH) is a warring god who is often described as the creator or patron of the orc people. Some orcs attribute their tenacity and toughness
to Gruumsh's lingering influence. Some myths describe a primeval conflict between Gruumsh and Corellon, which resulted in Gruumsh losing one eye and
Corellon's spilled blood becoming the first elves.
HADAR
Hadar
(HAY-dar or ha-DARR), the Dark Hunger, is an ancient stellar entity originating from the Far Realm (see chapter 6). It appears as a cinder-red dying star,
barely visible in the night sky, and it siphons life from its minions to avert its own demise. Two widely used Warlock spells invoke Hadar's power (see the
Arms of Hadar and Hunger of Hadar spells in the Player's Handbook), and a few Warlocks claim this Elder Evil as their Great Old One patron.
HARPERS, THE
The Harpers is a scattered network of spellcasters and spies in the Forgotten Realms setting. Its members advocate equality and covertly oppose the
abuse of power, magical or otherwise.
The Harpers has risen, been shattered, and risen again several times. The faction's longevity and resilience are largely due to its decentralized, grassroots,
secretive nature and the autonomy of its members. It has small cells and lone operatives throughout the Forgotten Realms, although they interact and share
information with one another as the need arises. The Harpers' ideology is noble, and members pride themselves on their ingenuity and incorruptibility.
Harpers don't seek power or glory, only fair treatment for all.
HEROES OF THE LANCE, THE
The adventurers known as the Heroes of the Lance, whose deeds helped prevent Takhisis (see Tiamat) and her evil dragons from conquering the world of the
Dragonlance setting, began as a small group of young adventurers and their aging dwarf mentor. This original group (known as the Innfellows) consisted of
Tanis Half-Elven, the brothers Raistlin and Caramon Majere, Sturm Brightblade, a kender (similar to a halfling) named Tasslehoff Burrfoot, the dwarf Flint
P356
✏
P357
P357
P357
P357

-- 285 of 318 --

Fireforge, and Kitiara Uth Matar, Raistlin and Caramon's older half-sister. While Kitiara eventually joined Takhisis's service, the heroes were joined by others:
Riverwind and Goldmoon, from the nomadic peoples of the plains; Gilthanas and Laurana, elf friends from Tanis's childhood; and Tika Waylan, a young
barmaid whom the original Innfellows remembered as just a kid.
HEROES OF THE REALM, THE
The so-called "heroes of the Realm" are a group of young adventurers—Bobby, Diana, Eric, Hank, Presto, and Sheila—who traveled from Earth in the 1980s
into a world in the D&D multiverse. Equipped with powerful magic items, they foiled the schemes of foes such as Venger and Tiamat while seeking some
means to return home. Eventually, as the heroes' mastery of adventuring skills increased, they discovered the secrets of traveling between worlds, though
they still haven't found a way home.
The heroes of the Realm weren't the only kids transported from Earth to the worlds of D&D. Other young adventurers, including Niko the Cleric, are still
exploring the vast D&D multiverse.
ICEWIND DALE
Icewind Dale is the northernmost settled region of the Forgotten Realms setting. Freezing wind sweeps across the tundra, finding its way through every crack
and draining any hint of warmth. Between the ice cliffs of the eastern glacier, the snowcapped peaks of the mountains to the south, and the Sea of Moving Ice
to the north and west, ten small towns cluster around three icy lakes.
IGGWILV
P357
P358
P358

-- 286 of 318 --

The Wizard Tasha, before she became Iggwilv the Witch Queen
Jodie Muir
Before she changed her name and conquered enough of Eastern Oerik (the Greyhawk setting) to rightfully call herself the Witch Queen of Perrenland, Iggwilv
(IGG-wilv) was known as Tasha, a human mage who began her career as the apprentice of Zagig Yragerne (see Zagyg). Later, as an adventurer, she created
several new spells, including Tasha's Hideous Laughter and Tasha's Bubbling Cauldron, leaning on the teachings of her adoptive mother, the arch-hag Baba
Yaga. As Tasha grew in power and made powerful enemies, she changed her name to Iggwilv. In this guise, she became enchanted with the power of the
Abyss and wrote the definitive treatise on demonkind: the Demonomicon of Iggwilv (see chapter 7). She also bound and trapped the demon lord Graz'zt
(see chapter 6).
Iggwilv ruled Perrenland as a tyrant. When Graz'zt escaped his magical prison, Iggwilv went into hiding. Iggwilv's current location is unknown, but she left
behind a cambion son (Iuz), who has his mother's tyrannical bent, and a daughter (Drelnza), who is now a vampire and lairs in the Lost Caverns of Tsojcanth
(see "Greyhawk Gazetteer" in chapter 5), not far from her mother's old haunts.
IUZ
Iuz
(EYE-ooze or eye-OOZE) is a cambion and the son of Iggwilv and Graz'zt (see chapter 6). He is every bit as evil as his father and as bent on conquest as
his mother at her very worst. He rules a significant portion of Eastern Oerik (in the Greyhawk setting), and some fear that he aspires to conquer even more
territory. See "Greyhawk's Premise" in chapter 5.
✏
P358

-- 287 of 318 --

JALLARZI SALLAVARIAN
The youngest and most recently appointed member of the Circle of Eight (see chapter 5), Jallarzi Sallavarian
(juh-LAR-zee sal-ah-VAIR-ee-en) is a Warlock
with a celestial patron. She is more inclined toward good than the more neutral members of the Circle of Eight and enjoys wandering the Free City of
Greyhawk (see chapter 5) in disguise, monitoring sinister elements of society there.
KAS THE BETRAYER
Kas
(KOSS) is a vampire, legendary sword-fighter, and ruthless warlord. He once served as the leader of Vecna's armies and the lich's most trusted lieutenant,
and he wielded a sword made for him (the Sword of Kas, described in chapter 7) by his liege. But the evil sword convinced Kas to betray Vecna, and now Kas
is driven primarily by his hatred for his former lord.
KERAPTIS
According to legend, Keraptis
(kuh-RAP-tiss) was an evil archmage who long ago seized power as a petty tyrant somewhere in the northern mountains of the
Greyhawk setting. When his demands on the local populace became too extreme, a revolt drove him into hiding. He disappeared into the tunnels beneath
White Plume Mountain (see "Greyhawk's Premise" in chapter 5). It's conceivable that he became a lich as the grim climax of his magical research.
KYUSS
Variously identified as an Elder Evil, as a demigod, or as a mortal priest of the demon lord Orcus (see chapter 6), Kyuss
(KYE-uss) is a mysterious figure best
known as the Worm That Walks. Kyuss manifests on the Material Plane as a colossal mass of maggots and worms animated by a single evil will.
P358
P358
P358
P359

-- 288 of 318 --

Kyuss
Helge C. Balzer
LAERAL SILVERHAND
Laeral
(LAIR-ull) Silverhand is the fifth of seven daughters of Mystra, a deity of magic in the Forgotten Realms setting. (Alustriel Silverhand is Laeral's older
sister.) She is over 700 years old, and after a period of withdrawal from public life, she now serves as the Open Lord of Waterdeep—the only one of the
twenty or so Lords of Waterdeep whose identity is publicly known. Though her power has waxed and waned depending on Mystra's involvement with the
world and has declined significantly in recent years, Laeral remains one of the most formidable spellcasters in a world known for powerful spellcasters.
LEAGUE OF MALEVOLENCE, THE
The League of Malevolence is an odious assemblage of villains united in one purpose: the accumulation of power. Its founding member, Kelek the Sorcerer,
expects his confederates to work together for their mutual benefit, but he also encourages them to pursue their own evil schemes. Other members include
the remorseless killer for hire Warduke, the assassin Zarak, and the evil Zargash, a servant of Orcus. Skylla, a Warlock whose power derives from a pact with
Baba Yaga, maintains a tenuous alliance with the league but despises Kelek.
✏
P359
P359

-- 289 of 318 --

LORD SOTH
Lord Soth is a death knight in the Dragonlance setting—a former Paladin who allowed his pride to lead him into evil. Offered an opportunity to redeem himself
by averting a cataclysmic event, his pride again led him to abandon his quest and allow the devastation of his world. His mortal life ended in that cataclysm,
but he rose from the ashes into undeath and retreated to his cursed castle, Dargaard Keep. He ignored the outside world for many centuries until the Dragon
Queen Takhisis (see Tiamat) called him forth to serve her in the War of the Lance.
MENZOBERRANZAN
The Underdark city of Menzoberranzan
(men-zoh-buh-RAN-zan), lying far beneath the Sword Coast region of the Forgotten Realms, is ruled by tyrannical
priests of the Demon Queen of Spiders, Lolth (see chapter 6). Most of its people are drow, whose noble houses are locked in a constant struggle for Lolth's
favor and the power that comes with it.
MINSC
Minsc
(MINSK) is a heroic Ranger from the land of Rashemen in the Forgotten Realms setting. Known for his good cheer, his hearty optimism, and his pet
miniature giant space hamster, Boo, Minsc is particularly adored in the city of Baldur's Gate.
MITHRAL
Mithral
(MITH-ral) is a light, flexible metal that resembles silver but is much more durable. Its most common use is for crafting lightweight armor that
provides excellent protection without bulk or burden (see the Mithral Armor magic item in chapter 7).
MORADIN
Myths told on many worlds describe Moradin
(MORE-ah-din) crafting all the peoples of the Material Plane in his great workshop in Mount Celestia (see
chapter 6), causing them to spring to life from inert metal when he cooled the heated castings with his breath. These myths are the source of Moradin's
appellation, "All-Father." Many peoples across the multiverse, including many dwarves, worship Moradin.
MORDENKAINEN
Mordenkainen
(mor-den-KIGH-nen or mor-den-KAY-nen) is a human archmage who maintains a residence in the Free City of Greyhawk and another hidden
somewhere in the Yatil Mountains between Perrenland and Ket (see chapter 5). He is the founder and leader of the Circle of Eight, which he created to
implement his philosophy of balance in the world. Among Mordenkainen's celebrated accomplishments are several name-branded spells, including ones
that create extradimensional mansions, swords of spectral force, and phantom watchdogs (detailed in the Player's Handbook).
Mordenkainen has visited numerous worlds and planes of existence, making friends and fomenting rivalries on many of them. He maintains a close
friendship with his former apprentice Bigby and the famous archmage Elminster of Shadowdale. Mordenkainen's greatest rival is Iggwilv, a former
adventuring companion.
NEVERWINTER
Once known in the Forgotten Realms setting as the Jewel of the North, the city of Neverwinter was badly damaged when a nearby volcano erupted about fifty
years ago. Now, its people work furiously to rebuild. Some of its outer walls still lie in ruins, and several of its neighborhoods remain abandoned.
Dagult Neverember is the Lord Protector of Neverwinter, ruling in the absence of a true heir to the crown. His dream is to see Neverwinter eclipse nearby
Waterdeep in wealth and prosperity.
P359
P359
P359
P359
P359
P359
P360

-- 290 of 318 --

OTILUKE
Otiluke
(AW-teh-luke) is an impulsive, aggressive Wizard who is the main agent of the Circle of Eight in the Free City of Greyhawk (see chapter 5). He holds a
position of political power and keeps his membership in the Circle of Eight secret. He is best known for his spells that create magical spheres (detailed in the
Player's Handbook).
OTTO
Otto
(AW-toe) is an affable dwarf Bard with a taste for fine food, good music, and expensively tailored clothes. His sociable and outgoing personality masks
the fact that he's also a member of the Circle of Eight (see chapter 5) and committed to the goals of that organization. He is well-known across the
multiverse for his creation of the Otto's Irresistible Dance spell.
PHANDALIN
The frontier town of Phandalin
(FAN-duh-lin or fan-DAY-lin) in the Sword Coast region of the Forgotten Realms setting is built on the ruins of a much older
settlement. Hundreds of years ago, old Phandalin was a thriving town until it was sacked by bandits and lay abandoned for centuries.
In the past few years, hardy folk from the cities of Neverwinter and Waterdeep have begun settling atop the ruins of old Phandalin. It's now home to farmers,
woodcutters, fur traders, and prospectors drawn by stories of gold and platinum in the foothills of the Sword Mountains—as well as more than a few ruffians
and bandits.
PRINCE OF FROST, THE
The Prince of Frost is a son of Titania, the Summer Queen. He was once known as the Sun Prince, but his heart grew cold when he was spurned by the fey
noble he loved. He is now a creature of wrath and winter, ruling from his Fortress of Frozen Tears in the Vale of Long Night in the Feywild (see chapter 6). He
detests mortals of the Material Plane and dreams of covering their many worlds with perpetual winter.
P360
P360
P360
P360

-- 291 of 318 --

The Prince of Frost
Brian Valeza
QUEEN OF AIR AND DARKNESS, THE
The mysterious Queen of Air and Darkness is the archfey ruler of the Gloaming Court in the Feywild (see chapter 6). Though she is often described as
malicious and evil, her motivations are as obscure and whimsical as any other archfey's. She gives supernatural boons and terrible curses with equal whimsy,
with little regard for the elaborate customs surrounding gifts and favors in other courts of the Feywild. Though she is said to have a spectral form resembling
a terrifying elf, to the unaided eye she appears as a strange, black diamond, hovering in the air like the slitted pupil of an unseen cat.
RAVEN QUEEN, THE
The Raven Queen is a being of mystery. Those who claim to have encountered her have described an array of disturbing images: a terrible shadow that
clawed at their innermost thoughts, a pale and regal elf who exploded into an untold number of ravens, a shambling tangle of slick roots and sticks that
overwhelmed them with dread, or an unknown presence that pulled them screaming into the gloom.
Despite all attempts to demystify her, the Raven Queen has remained enigmatic and aloof. She rules from her Raven Throne within the Fortress of Memories,
a mazelike castle deep within the bleakness of the Shadowfell (see chapter 6). From there she sends out her raven servants to find interesting souls she can
pluck from the planes of existence. Once these souls are in the Shadowfell, she watches as they attempt to unravel the mystery of their being.
✏
P360
P361

-- 292 of 318 --

The Raven Queen
Diana Cearley
ROCK OF BRAL, THE
Bral is a city built on an asteroid that drifts through Wildspace (see chapter 6). Its inhabitants, who hail from many worlds across the Material Plane, typically
refer to Bral as the Rock. There is no other place quite like it in Wildspace—a teeming hive of business that spans the breadth of the Astral Sea.
Bral is populated by an outlandish collection of traders, scoundrels, mercenaries, pirates, nobles, and entrepreneurs. Generally, law enforcement is sporadic,
which means that order is elusive. Most folks who call the Rock home adhere to two principles: mind your own business whenever possible, and enough
gold can fix anything.
RUDOLPH VAN RICHTEN
A scholar and monster hunter, Rudolph van Richten has traveled to dozens of Domains of Dread in the Shadowfell (see chapter 6), investigating reports of
monstrous beings and documenting them in a series of published guides, the best known of which is
Van Richten's Guide to Vampires.
In kinder days, Rudolph lived with his wife, Ingrid, and son, Erasmus, but he lost them both to a wicked vampire. In the process of hunting the vampire,
Rudolph came under a terrible curse: "Live you always among monsters, and see everyone you love die beneath their claws."
In the decades since, van Richten has hunted monsters and armed others with the knowledge they need to confront evil. Though he's made many devoted
allies, he keeps them at arm's length, fearing the threat of his curse.
✏
P361
P361

-- 293 of 318 --

Van Richten is closely associated with other heroes who prowl the Domains of Dread, including the detective Alanik Ray and his partner Arthur Sedgwick, the
explorer Ez d'Avenir, and the twins Gennifer and Laurie Weathermay-Foxgrove.
STRAHD VON ZAROVICH
A brilliant thinker and capable warrior in life, Strahd von Zarovich
(STRAWD von zuh-ROH-vitch or ZAR-oh-vitch) fought in countless battles for his people.
After a long life of warfare and slaughter, he settled in the remote valley of Barovia and built a castle on a towering pinnacle. His brother Sergei came to live
with him in Castle Ravenloft, becoming Strahd's adviser and constant companion.
In his brother, Strahd saw everything he was not. Resentment colored their relationship and eventually turned into hatred. Strahd's beloved, Tatyana, spurned
Strahd for Sergei, whom she pledged to marry.
In a desperate attempt to regain Tatyana's love, Strahd forged a pact with dark powers that made him immortal. Strahd confronted his brother at Sergei and
Tatyana's wedding and killed him. Tatyana fled and flung herself from Ravenloft's walls. Guards shot Strahd with arrows, but he didn't die. He became a
vampire—the first vampire, according to many sages.
In the centuries since his transformation, Strahd's lust for life has grown. He broods in his castle, cursing the living for all he has lost and never admitting to his
role in the tragedy.
SUMMER QUEEN, THE
Titania, the Summer Queen, is the regal and charismatic ruler of the Summer Court in the Feywild (see chapter 6). Perhaps the mightiest of the archfey, she can
ripen a crop with a smile and summon wildfires with the merest crinkling of her brow.
P361
P362

-- 294 of 318 --

The Summer Queen
Katerina Ladon
SWORD COAST, THE
The Sword Coast is the western edge of the continent of the Forgotten Realms setting, running along the Sea of Swords. It's a narrow band of territory
dominated by several major city-states, from Neverwinter in the north to Baldur's Gate in the south, with Waterdeep in between.
SZASS TAM
Szass Tam
(ZASS TAM) is a powerful lich and necromancer in the Forgotten Realms setting. As leader of the Red Wizards of Thay, he has countless spies,
assassins, and other agents at his service, and his schemes span centuries and reach to the ends of the world.
TASHA
See Iggwilv.
✏
P362
P362
P362

-- 295 of 318 --

THARIZDUN
For a being known as the Chained God, the Elder Evil Tharizdun
(thuh-RIZZ-dun or thair-izz-DOON) has managed to extend his baleful influence from the
Greyhawk setting through many worlds of the Material Plane. He is an ancient force of entropy, the end of all things and the extinction of life. His worshipers
are nihilists who seek to end all worlds by liberating their god. Tharizdun is often linked to cults of Elemental Evil (see chapter 5).
TIAMAT
Tiamat
(TEE-a-mat) is one of the primordial dragons who (along with Bahamut) is said to have created the First World. Since the destruction of the First
World, she has made her home in the Nine Hells (see chapter 6), where she is served by devils and enjoys the worship of mortals across the multiverse. In the
Dragonlance setting, where she is known as Takhisis
(ta-KEE-sis), she is the greatest of the gods of evil. On many worlds, she is known as a god of greed,
wealth, and vengeance.
Chromatic dragons might fear, respect, envy, and appease Tiamat as a sovereign, but they don't worship her. Their devotion to her rarely supersedes their
devotion to their own goals.
UNDERDARK, THE
The Underdark is a vast subterranean realm of natural caverns and passages extending far beneath the surface of most D&D worlds. Many creatures inhabit
the Underdark, including drow, duergar, svirfneblin, and other species that have adapted to the world below the surface.
UNDERMOUNTAIN
Undermountain is the largest, deepest dungeon in the Forgotten Realms setting. It's a series of interconnected dungeon levels sprawling far beneath the city
of Waterdeep. Its tunnels connect to preexisting mithral mines and natural caverns of the Underdark. The best-known entrance to Undermountain is through
the Yawning Portal tavern in Waterdeep, but other routes also exist. A reclusive and cantankerous archmage named Halaster Blackcloak claims
Undermountain as his domain, although his overlordship isn't widely acknowledged by the dungeon's other denizens.
VAJRA SAFAHR
Vajra Safahr
(VAWJ-rah sah-FAR) is a human Wizard in her mid-thirties, making her the youngest person ever to hold the position of Blackstaff—the chief
mage of Waterdeep and the head of Blackstaff Academy, a school for mages. Several of the older and more seasoned mages of Waterdeep consider Vajra
an upstart, but they are smart enough not to challenge her. As the badge of her office, she carries the
Blackstaff, an Artifact that holds the spirits of all her
predecessors.
VALOR'S CALL
The noble adventuring party known as Valor's Call was founded by Strongheart, a resolute human Paladin committed to destroying evil wherever it rears its
head. Strongheart alone determines who can become a member of this prestigious group, and he is always looking for courageous heroes willing to devote
themselves to a good cause.
Only good-aligned characters can join Valor's Call. The group enjoys the patronage of Yolande, the queen of Celene, and carries out missions on her behalf
both in the Greyhawk setting (see chapter 5) and in the Feywild (see chapter 6).
Prominent members of Valor's Call include the dwarf Fighter Elkhorn, the human Cleric Mercion, the human Rogue Molliver, and the human Wizard Ringlerun.
VECNA
P362
P362
P362
P362
P362
P363
P363

-- 296 of 318 --

Vecna
(VECK-nah) had humble beginnings in the Greyhawk setting, where an order of Wizards used him as a bootblack and scribe. He studied magic in
secret until he amassed enough power to slaughter the order, and then he turned his efforts toward scribing the Book of Vile Darkness (described in chapter
7). Armed with that dread tome, he forged a kingdom to rule, with the vampire Kas as his lieutenant. But Kas betrayed and killed him, leaving only one hand
and one eye intact (the Eye and Hand of Vecna are described in chapter 7).
Vecna's evil will was so great that he persisted beyond death and eventually became a demigod of secrets and evil magic. His ambition drives him to pursue
greater divine power across the multiverse.
Vecna
Olivier Bernard
VENGER
Venger
(VEN-jur) was once both human and good-hearted, but some fiendish force transformed him into a winged, one-horned villain. His schemes have
spanned centuries and worlds, as he seeks to seize ever-increasing magical power. He has a particular loathing for Tiamat and longs to overthrow her. He is
often seen astride a flying black steed, his shadowy adviser in tow.
VI
✏
P363
P363

-- 297 of 318 --

Vi
(VYE) is a gnome artificer, entrepreneur, and traveler of many worlds who originally hails from Eberron. After helping to create terribly destructive weapons
during the Last War, Vi sought to atone for this guilt by establishing the Fixers, an organization dedicated to solving apparently hopeless problems. From the
Fixers' headquarters in Sigil, Vi has brought her genius, warm heart, and love for a stiff drink to many worlds across the multiverse.
VLAAKITH
Vlaakith
(VLAH-kith) is the lich-queen of the githyanki city of Tu'narath, adrift in the Astral Plane (see chapter 6). She is ancient, having fought alongside a
leader named Gith to win her people's freedom from the mind flayers that enslaved them. Githyanki of Tu'narath swear unquestioning obedience to the lich-
queen, and she promises access to paradise to those who serve her loyally. In truth, she feasts on the souls of any subjects who grow powerful enough to
dream of challenging her.
WATERDEEP
Waterdeep is the most famous and cosmopolitan city in the Forgotten Realms setting. It's a center of wealth and influence where people come to make their
dreams come true. The city is home to the Yawning Portal, the best-known point of access to the sprawling dungeon of Undermountain.
XANATHAR
Xanathar
(ZAN-a-thar) is an eccentric beholder crime lord dwelling beneath Waterdeep. Desiring to know all there is to know, Xanathar collects knowledge
from across the multiverse, but its most prized possession is its goldfish, Sylgar.
P363
P363
P363

-- 298 of 318 --

Xanathar is a tyrannical crime lord as well as a beholder
Jason Juta
YAWNING PORTAL, THE
The Yawning Portal is a tavern in Waterdeep, built around an entrance to the infamous dungeon of Undermountain. Adventurers throughout the Forgotten
Realms setting and elsewhere in the multiverse visit the Yawning Portal to exchange knowledge about Undermountain and other dungeons. Most visitors are
content to swap stories by the hearth, but some adventurers pay the toll for entry into Undermountain (collected by the mysterious owner and bartender,
Durnan).
YOLANDE
Yolande
(yoh-LAWND), known as the Faerie Queen, is the benevolent and beloved elf monarch of Celene (see chapter 5). Raised in the court of the Summer
Queen, Yolande had no wish to rule. She preferred the life of an adventuring magic-user. She built her reputation on triumphs, such as her capture of the
fomorian brigand Solgna and the theft of the Prince of Frost's sentient sword,
Winterflash. Yolande was among the first elves to migrate from the Feywild to
the Greyhawk setting.
✏
P364
P364

-- 299 of 318 --

ZAGYG
The archmage Zagig Yragerne
(ZAG-igg EE-rag-airn) was an adventurer in the Greyhawk setting and a member of the Company of Seven. At the climax of a
long and prosperous adventuring career, he built a fortress known as Castle Greyhawk outside the Free City of Greyhawk (see chapter 5). From this
stronghold, he took an increasingly powerful role in the politics of the city, contributing to its reputation as "the Gem of the Flanaess." He obsessively delved
deeper under his castle and withdrew from the outside world until he managed to entrap nine demigods in magical prisons and claim a fragment of their
divine power. He ascended to a minor form of godhood, took the name Zagyg, and took a place in the court of Boccob, a god of magic.
ZARGON
Zargon
(ZAR-gawn) is an Elder Evil—an undying abomination from eons past with an insatiable appetite. A tentacled, slime-covered horror with a cyclopic
red eye and an indestructible horn, Zargon corrupts creatures it doesn't devour, transforming its victims into amorphous servants. Zargon is imprisoned on
the Material Plane in a prison deep in the earth. This prison is described in the Quests from the Infinite Staircase adventure anthology.
APPENDIX B: MAPS
BARROW CRYPT
Barrow Crypt	
Player Version
CARAVAN ENCAMPMENT
P364
P364
P365
P365
P366

-- 300 of 318 --

Caravan Encampment
Dyson Logos
CROSSROADS VILLAGE
Crossroads Village
Dyson Logos
DRAGON'S LAIR
✏
P367
✏
P368

-- 301 of 318 --

Dragon's Lair	
Player Version
DUNGEON HIDEOUT
Dungeon Hideout	
Player Version
FARMSTEAD
P369
P370

-- 302 of 318 --

Farmstead
Dyson Logos
KEEP
Keep	
Player Version
MANOR
✏
P371
P372

-- 303 of 318 --

Manor	
Player Version
MINE
Mine	
Player Version
ROADSIDE INN
P373
P374

-- 304 of 318 --

Roadside Inn	
Player Version
SHIP
Ship	
Player Version
SPOOKY HOUSE
P375
P376

-- 305 of 318 --

Spooky House	
Player Version
UNDERDARK WARREN
Underdark Warren	
Player Version
VOLCANIC CAVES
P377
P378

-- 306 of 318 --

Volcanic Caves	
Player Version
WIZARD'S TOWER
Wizard's Tower	
Player Version
APPENDIX C: TRACKING SHEETS
You can find all the tracking sheets found throughout the Dungeon Master's Guide below. A combined sheet is also available.
GAME EXPECTATIONS
P379

-- 307 of 318 --

Download PDF
TRAVEL PLANNER

-- 308 of 318 --

Download PDF
NPC TRACKER

-- 309 of 318 --

Download PDF
SETTLEMENT TRACKER

-- 310 of 318 --

Download PDF
CAMPAIGN JOURNAL

-- 311 of 318 --

Download PDF
DM'S CHARACTER TRACKER

-- 312 of 318 --

Download PDF
CAMPAIGN CONFLICTS

-- 313 of 318 --

Download PDF
MAGIC ITEM TRACKER

-- 314 of 318 --

Download PDF
BASTION TRACKER

-- 315 of 318 --

Download PDF
CREDITS

-- 316 of 318 --

Lead Designers: Christopher Perkins, James Wyatt
Designers: Jeremy Crawford, F. Wesley Schneider, Ray Winninger
Rules Developers: Jeremy Crawford (lead), Makenzie De Armas, Ben
Petrisor
Editors: Adrian Ng (lead), Judy Bauer, Janica Carter
Playtest Analysts: Ron Lundeen (lead), Dan Dillon, Patrick Renie
Art Directors: Kate Irwin (lead), Josh Herman
Graphic Designers: Trish Yochum (lead), Matt Cole
Cover Illustrators: Tyler Jacobson, Simen Meyer, Olena Richards
Interior Illustrators: Helder Almeida, Joy Ang, David Astruga, Alfven Ato,
Tom Babbey, Helge C. Balzer, Luca Bancone, Mark Behm, Eric Belisle,
Olivier Bernard, Zoltan Boros, Bruce Brenneise, Aleksi Briclot, Ekaterina
Burmak, Filip Burburan, Paul Scott Canavan, Dawn Carlos, Clint Cearley,
Diana Cearley, Sidharth Chaturvedi, David René Christensen,
Conceptopolis, Harry Conway, CoupleOfKooks, Daarken, Kent Davis,
Nikki Dawes, Axel Defois, Alex Diaz, Simon Dominic, Olga Drebas, Wayne
England, Aurore Folny, Jessica Fong, Vallez Gax, Justyna Gil, Ilse Gort,
Alexandre Honoré, Ralph Horsley, Jason Juta, Sam Keiser, Julian Kok,
Katerina Ladon, Abigail Larson, Olly Lawson, Linda Lithen, Titus Lunter,
Andrew Mar, Raluca Marinescu, Viko Menezes, Brynn Metheney, Robson
Michel, Calder Moore, Martin Mottet, Jodie Muir, Scott Murphy, David
Auden Nash, Irina Nordsol, William O'Connor, Robin Olausson, Claudio
Pozas, Livia Prima, April Prime, Noor Rahman, Chris Rallis, Chris Seaman,
Andrea Sipl, Craig J Spearing, Chase Stone, Joel Thomas, Beth Trott,
Brian Valeza, Randy Vargas, Richard Whitters, Kieran Yanner, Zuzanna
Wužyk
Cartographers: Francesca Baerald, Dyson Logos, Mike Schley
Concept Art Director: Josh Herman
Concept Artists: Even Amundsen, Carlo Arellano, Michael Broussard, John
Grello, Tyler Jacobson, 9B Collective, Noor Rahman
Consultants: Zac Clay, Jennifer Kretchmer, James Mendez, Matthew Mercer,
Jonathan Tomhave, Alyssa Visscher, Deborah Ann Woll
Additional Consultation: Justice Ramin Arman, Kyle Brink, Amanda Hamon,
Jay Jani, Carl Sibley, Emi Tanji, Jason Tondro
Producers: Dan Tovar (lead), Bill Benham, Siera Bruggeman, Robert Hawkey
Print Operations Engineers: Basil Hale, Scott West
Imaging Technicians: Daniel Corona, Meagan Kenreck, Kevin Yee
Prepress Specialist: Jefferson Dunlap
Based on the Dungeon Master's Guide (2014) by Jeremy Crawford (co-
lead), Christopher Perkins (co-lead), James Wyatt (co-lead), Peter Lee,
Mike Mearls, Robert J. Schwalb, Rodney Thompson
Building on the original game created by Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson and
then developed by many others over the past 50 years
Daarken	✏

-- 317 of 318 --

On the Cover: Tyler Jacobson illustrates the
archvillain Venger, his evil cohorts Skylla and
Warduke, and a legion of skeletal minions.
Tyler Jacobson
On the Alt-Cover: Lolth, the Demon Queen of
Spiders, spins a tangled web of schemes and
snares in this illustration by Olena Richards.
Olena Richards	✏ 	✏

-- 318 of 318 --

