=== How to Use a Monster - Monster Manual - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond.pdf ===
MONSTERS (A)
Introduction: How to Use a Monster
Every monster is a font of adventure. In this bestiary of Dungeons & Dragons monsters, you’ll discover the weird, the whimsical, the majestic, and the
macabre. Choose your favorites, and make them part of your D&D play.
Along with the
Player’s Handbook (2024) and
Dungeon Master’s Guide (2024), the
Monster Manual is part of D&D’s foundation and requires those books.
This book is intended for Dungeon Masters (DMs) and provides game statistics for monsters: all sorts of creatures—whether friend or foe—controlled by
the DM. Those statistics appear in stat blocks. The book presents the monsters’ sections alphabetically, with animals gathered in appendix A.
Official D&D adventures refer to the monsters in this book, and you may use these monsters—along with the rules for monster customization and encounter
building in the
Dungeon Master’s Guide—to build your own adventures. Consult appendix B for monster lists that will help your adventure building.
Stat Block Overview
A monster has a stat block that contains the rules necessary to use it in the game. Stat blocks are divided into the following parts, which correspond with
the example stat block, Vampire Familiar:
PREV CHAPTER
VAMPIRE FAMILIAR
1
2
Medium or Small Humanoid, Neutral Evil
AC 15 	Initiative +5 (15)
HP 65 (10d8 + 20)
Speed 30 ft., Climb 30 ft.

-- 1 of 9 --

3
4
5
6
7
8
MOD SAVE
STR 17 	+3 	+3
DEX 16 	+3 	+5
CON 15 	+2 	+2
MOD SAVE
INT 	10 	+0 	+0
WIS 	10 	+0 	+2
CHA 14 	+2 	+2
Skills Perception +4, Persuasion +4,
Stealth +7
Resistances Necrotic
Immunities Charmed (except from its
vampire master)
Gear Daggers (10)
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive
Perception 14
Languages Common plus one other language
CR 3 (XP 700; PB +2)
Traits
Vampiric Connection. While the familiar and its
vampire master are on the same plane of
existence, the vampire can communicate with
the familiar telepathically, and the vampire can
perceive through the familiar’s senses.
Actions
Multiattack. The familiar makes two Umbral
Dagger attacks.
Umbral Dagger. Melee or Ranged Attack Roll:
+5, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft.
Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3)
Piercing damage plus 7 (3d4) Necrotic
damage. If the target is reduced to 0 Hit Points
by this attack, the target becomes Stable but
has the Poisoned condition for 1 hour. While it
has the Poisoned condition, the target has the
Paralyzed condition.
Bonus Actions
Deathless Agility. The familiar takes the Dash
or Disengage action.

-- 2 of 9 --

Monster Entries
Most of the book is composed of monster sections that have the following parts after a section’s title.
Habitat
A monster’s habitat entry notes where the monster typically dwells. Lists of monsters organized by habitat appear in appendix B.
Treasure
A monster’s treasure entry specifies whether the monster hoards treasure and the type of treasure it prefers. These preferences are detailed as follows:
Any. The monster’s treasure hoard can include monetary treasure and any kinds of magic items.
Individual. The monster doesn’t have a treasure hoard, but it might keep monetary treasure.
Treasure Theme (Arcana, Armaments, Implements, or Relics). The monster’s treasure hoard features magic items with the noted theme. The
Dungeon
Master’s Guide details treasure hoards appropriate for each theme.
None. The monster doesn’t care about treasure. Any treasure the monster has is incidental.
Any treasure a monster has is in addition to equipment listed in the Gear entry of its stat block.
The
Dungeon Master’s Guide provides more information on monster treasure.
Narrative Description
After a monster’s introductory information come details that apply to the monster wherever it might be found in the multiverse. Customize these details
however is appropriate to your adventures.
Special Lairs
Some monsters alter the regions around their lairs. For such a monster, regional effects are detailed in a lair section. The monster’s stat block might also
include ways in which the monster is more powerful while in its lair.
Stat Blocks
Each entry includes at least one stat block. Stat blocks are explored in the next section.
Parts of a Stat Block
The rules for a stat block are detailed in the rules glossary of the
Player’s Handbook and in this section.
Size
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Name and General Details. The name of the monster is followed by its size, creature type (along with any descriptive tags), and alignment.
Combat Highlights. Armor Class, Hit Points, Speed, and Initiative are provided here.
Ability Scores. A monster’s ability scores, ability modifiers, and saving throws are listed here.
Other Details. The monster’s Senses, Languages, and CR entries appear here. Additional details appear in some monsters, such as skill proficiencies,
Resistances, Immunities, and Gear. If a monster lacks those details, entries for them don’t appear.
Traits. Monster characteristics that are active at all times or during certain situations appear here.
Actions. The monster can take the actions here in addition to those in the
Player’s Handbook.
Bonus Actions. This section provides a monster’s Bonus Actions, if any.
Reactions and Legendary Actions. These sections provide Reactions and Legendary Actions, if any. The example monster doesn’t include these parts.

-- 3 of 9 --

A monster is Tiny, Small, Medium, Large, Huge, or Gargantuan. If size options are presented, you choose the creature’s size from those options. See the
Player’s Handbook for information on size.
Creature Type
Each monster has a tag that identifies the type of creature it is. Certain spells, magic items, class features, and other effects in the game interact in special
ways with creatures of a particular type. Lists of monsters organized by creature type appear in appendix B.
The game includes the following creature types, which have no rules of their own:
Aberrations are utterly alien beings, such as aboleths, beholders, flumphs, and mind flayers.
Beasts are non-Humanoid natural creatures, like horses and wolves, as well as most giant animals.
Celestials are magical creatures, such as angels and pegasi, with ties to the Upper Planes.
Constructs are magically created creatures such as homunculi, modrons, and shield guardians.
Dragons are scaly beings of ancient origin, such as red dragons and wyverns.
Elementals are beings from the Elemental Planes, such as efreet and water elementals.
Fey are creatures tied to the Feywild or the forces of nature, such as dryads, goblins, and pixies.
Fiends are creatures tied to terrifying Lower Planes, such as balors and hell hounds.
Giants are towering beings with humanlike shapes, like cyclopes, fire giants, and trolls.
Humanoids are people defined by their roles and professions, such as mages, pirates, and warriors. They include members of varied species.
Monstrosities are unnatural creatures with strange origins, such as mimics and owlbears.
Oozes are gelatinous creatures, including black puddings and blobs of annihilation.
Plants are sentient vegetation and fungal monsters, such as myconids, shambling mounds, and treants.
Undead are spirits and the reanimated dead, such as ghosts, vampires, and zombies.
Descriptive Tags
A monster might have one or more tags in parentheses following its type. Such tags provide additional categorization and have no rules of their own, but
certain game effects might refer to them. Lists of monster groups related by descriptive tags appear in appendix B.
Alignment
The alignment specified in a monster’s stat block is a default suggestion of how to roleplay the monster, inspired by its traditional role in the game or real-
world folklore. Change a monster’s alignment to suit your storytelling needs. The Neutral alignment, in particular, is an invitation for you to consider whether
an individual leans toward one of the other alignments.
The
Player’s Handbook describes the nine alignments and unaligned creatures.
Armor Class
A monster’s Armor Class (AC) includes its natural armor, Dexterity, gear, and other defenses. See the
Player’s Handbook for information on Armor Class.
Initiative
The Initiative entry specifies the monster’s Initiative modifier followed by the monster’s Initiative score in parentheses. Use the modifier when you roll to
determine a monster’s Initiative. A monster’s Initiative modifier is typically equal to its Dexterity modifier, but some monsters have additional modifiers, such
as Proficiency Bonus, applied to that number.
If you don’t want to roll a monster’s Initiative, use the Initiative score as the monster’s Initiative in combat. Initiative is further detailed in the
Player’s
Handbook.

-- 4 of 9 --

Hit Points
A monster’s Hit Points are presented as a number followed by parentheses, where the monster’s Hit Point Dice are provided, along with any contribution
from its Constitution. Either use the number for the monster’s Hit Points or roll the die expression in parentheses to determine the monster’s Hit Points
randomly; don’t use both.
A monster’s size typically determines the die used to calculate its Hit Points, as shown in the Hit Dice by Size table.
Hit Dice by Size
Monster Size 	Hit Die 	Average HP per Die
Tiny 	d4 	2½
Small 	d6 	3½
Medium 	d8 	4½
Large 	d10 	5½
Huge 	d12 	6½
Gargantuan 	d20 	10½
A monster’s Constitution modifier is multiplied by the number of Hit Dice it possesses, and the result is added to its Hit Points. For example, if a monster
has a Constitution of 12 (+1 modifier) and 2d8 Hit Dice, it has 2d8 + 2 Hit Points (average 11).
For more on Hit Points, see the
Player’s Handbook.
Speed
The Speed entry specifies a monster’s Speed. Some monsters have one or more of the following speeds: Burrow, Climb, Fly, Swim. Rules for Speed and
these specials speeds appear in the
Player’s Handbook.
Ability Scores
Every monster has six ability scores along with corresponding ability score modifiers and saving throw modifiers. For more information on ability scores
and saving throws, see the
Player’s Handbook.
Skills
The Skills entry specifies a monster’s skill proficiencies, if any. For example, a monster that is very perceptive and stealthy might have bonuses to Wisdom
(Perception) and Dexterity (Stealth) checks. A skill bonus is the sum of a monster’s relevant ability modifier and its Proficiency Bonus. Other modifiers
might apply.
Resistances and Vulnerabilities
These entries list a monster’s Resistances and Vulnerabilities, if any. See the
Player’s Handbook for more information.
Immunities
This entry lists the monster’s Immunities, if any. If the monster has damage and condition Immunities, the damage types are listed before the conditions.
See the
Player’s Handbook for details.
Gear
Monsters have proficiency with their equipment. If a monster has equipment that can be given away or retrieved, the items are listed in the Gear entry. The
monster’s stat block might include special flourishes that happen when the monster uses an item, and the stat block might ignore
Player’s Handbook rules

-- 5 of 9 --

for that item. When used by someone else, a retrievable item uses its
Player’s Handbook rules, ignoring any special flourishes in the stat block.
The Gear entry doesn’t necessarily list all of a monster’s equipment. For example, a monster that wears clothes is assumed to be dressed appropriately, and
those clothes aren’t in this entry.
Equipment mentioned outside the Gear entry is considered to be supernatural or highly specialized, and it is unusable when the monster is defeated.
Ammunition and Ranged Attacks
A monster that requires ammunition to make ranged attacks carries the necessary ammunition.
Equipping a Monster with Other Items
You may equip monsters with additional gear however you like, using the equipment chapter of the
Player’s Handbook for inspiration. You decide how
much of a monster’s equipment is recoverable after the creature is slain and whether any of that equipment is still usable.
Beware of giving a monster combat-oriented magic items, since those might alter the monster’s Challenge Rating. If you do give a monster a magic item,
the monster can have Attunement with magic items as noted in the
Player’s Handbook. A monster with a class tag after its creature type is considered a
member of that class for Attunement purposes.
Senses
The Senses entry specifies a monster’s Passive Perception score, as well as any special senses the monster possesses. Passive Perception and special
senses are described in the
Player’s Handbook.
Languages
This entry lists languages that the monster can use to communicate. Sometimes a monster can understand a language but can’t communicate with it,
which is noted in its entry. “None” indicates that a creature doesn’t comprehend any language.
Telepathy
Telepathy is a magical ability that allows a creature to communicate mentally with another creature within a specified range. See the
Player’s Handbook for
more information.
Challenge Rating
Challenge Rating is defined in the
Player’s Handbook, while guidance on using CR to plan potential combat encounters is in the
Dungeon Master’s Guide.
Lists of monsters organized by Challenge Rating appear in appendix B.
Experience Points
The number of Experience Points (XP) a monster is worth is based on its CR, as detailed in the Experience Points by Challenge Rating table. XP is awarded
for defeating the monster in combat or otherwise neutralizing it.
Unless a rule says otherwise, a monster summoned by a spell or another magical ability is worth the XP noted in its stat block.
Experience Points by Challenge Rating
CR 	XP
0 	0 or 10
1/8 	25
1/4 	50
1/2 	100
1 	200
2 	450
3 	700
CR 	XP
14 	11,500
15 	13,000
16 	15,000
17 	18,000
18 	20,000
19 	22,000
20 	25,000

-- 6 of 9 --

CR 	XP
4 	1,100
5 	1,800
6 	2,300
7 	2,900
8 	3,900
9 	5,000
10 	5,900
11 	7,200
12 	8,400
13 	10,000
CR 	XP
21 	33,000
22 	41,000
23 	50,000
24 	62,000
25 	75,000
26 	90,000
27 	105,000
28 	120,000
29 	135,000
30 	155,000
Proficiency Bonus
A monster’s Proficiency Bonus (PB) is determined by its CR, as shown in the Proficiency Bonus by Challenge Rating table, and is reflected in saving throws,
skills, and other statistics where the monster’s exceptional aptitude is a factor.
Proficiency Bonus by Challenge Rating
CR 	PB
0–4 	+2
5–8 	+3
9–12 	+4
13–16 	+5
17–20 	+6
21–24 	+7
25–28 	+8
29–30 	+9
Traits
A monster’s traits, if any, are features that are active at all times or in certain situations.

-- 7 of 9 --

Actions
A monster can take the actions in this section or take one of the actions available to all creatures, as described in the
Player’s Handbook.
Attack Notation
The entry for a monster’s attack identifies whether the attack is a melee or a ranged attack and then provides the attack roll’s bonus, its reach or range, and
what happens on a hit. An attack is against one target unless its entry says otherwise. For details on different kinds of attacks, see the
Player’s Handbook.
Hit. Any damage dealt or other effects that occur as a result of an attack hitting a target are described after the “
Hit:” notation.
Miss. If an attack has an effect that occurs on a miss, that information follows the “
Miss:” notation.
Hit or Miss. If an attack has an effect that occurs regardless of whether it hits or misses its target, that information follows the “
Hit or Miss:” notation.
Saving Throw Effect Notation
If an effect forces a saving throw, the effect identifies the kind of save required and then provides the save’s DC, a description of which creatures make the
save, and an explanation of what happens on a failed or successful save.
“Half damage only” on a successful save means the target takes half as much damage (round down) as targets that fail the save, while also ignoring all
other parts of the effect.
Damage Notation
A stat block usually provides both a number and a die expression for each instance of damage. For example, an attack might deal 4 (1d4 + 2) damage on a
hit. You decide whether to use the number or the die expression in parentheses; don’t use both.
Multiattack
Some creatures can make more than one attack when they take the Attack action. Such creatures have the Multiattack entry in the “Actions” section of their
stat block. This entry details the attacks a creature can make, as well as any additional abilities it can use, as part of the Attack action.
Spellcasting
If a monster can cast any spells, its stat block lists the spells and provides the monster’s spellcasting ability, spell save DC (if any spells require a saving
throw), and spell attack bonus (if any spells require an attack roll). Unless noted otherwise, a spell of level 1 or higher is always cast at its lowest possible
level and can’t be cast at a higher level.
A monster’s spell can have special rules or restrictions. For example, a green slaad can cast the
Invisibility spell, but the spell has a “self only” restriction,
which means the spell affects only the slaad.
Spell Components. The Spellcasting trait notes whether the monster’s spellcasting ignores the need for certain spell components. If any spell components
are required, describe the monster’s use of Verbal, Somatic, or Material components to signal to characters that it is casting a spell. A monster that requires
Material components has them.
Casting Times of 1+ Minutes. If a spell has a casting time of 1 minute or more yet is listed in a spellcasting action, the monster doesn’t cast the spell in just
one action unless the action’s description states otherwise; the monster must take the Magic action on each of its turns and maintain Concentration to cast
the spell, as described in the
Player’s Handbook.
Bonus Action
If a monster has Bonus Action options, they are listed in this section. See the
Player’s Handbook for details on Bonus Actions.
Reactions
If the monster has Reaction options, those are listed in this section along with their triggers. See the
Player’s Handbook for details on Reactions.
Legendary Actions
If the monster has Legendary Action options, those are listed in this section. A Legendary Action is an action that a monster can take immediately after
another creature’s turn. Only one of these actions can be taken at a time and only after another creature’s turn ends. The monster can’t take a Legendary

-- 8 of 9 --

Our Terms of Service and Privacy Notice have recently been updated to provide greater clarity as to how disputes are handled and transparency
regarding the collection and use of personal data. Please review them here: Terms of Service, Privacy Notice. By continuing to use the services, you
agree to the new Terms.
SUPPORT
Help Portal
Support Forum
System Status
Do Not Sell or Share
My Personal
Information
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Notice
System Reference
Document (SRD)
ABOUT
Contact Us
Careers
Wizards of the
Coast
FIND US ON SOCIAL
MEDIA
DOWNLOAD THE D&D BEYOND
APP
© 2017-2026 WIZARDS OF THE COAST LLC | ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
Dungeons & Dragons, D&D Beyond, D&D, Wizards of the Coast, the dragon ampersand, and all other Wizards of the Coast
product names, campaign settings, their respective logos, and The World's Greatest Roleplaying Game are © and trademark
Wizards of the Coast in the U.S.A. and other countries. © 2026 Wizards.
PRIVACY POLICY 	TERMS OF SERVICE
Action if it has the Incapacitated condition or is otherwise unable to take actions.
The monster has a limited number of Legendary Action uses, and that number is specified in the stat block. The monster expends one use whenever it
takes a Legendary Action, and it regains all expended uses at the start of each of its turns.
Limited Usage
Some parts of a stat block have restrictions on the number of times they can be used. Here are the most common ways that usage is limited:
X/Day. This notation means the stat block part can be used a certain number of times (represented by X) and that a monster must finish a Long Rest to
regain expended uses. For example, a Reaction that includes “1/Day” means the Reaction can be taken once and that the monster must finish a Long Rest
to take it again.
Recharge X–Y. This notation means a monster can use the stat block part once. At the start of each of the monster’s turns, roll 1d6. If the roll is within the
number range given in the notation (represented by X–Y), the monster regains the use of that part, which also recharges when the monster finishes a Short
or Long Rest. For example, “Recharge 5–6” in an action means a monster can take the action once. Then, at the start of each of the monster’s turns, it
regains the use of that action if it rolls a 5 or 6 on 1d6.
Recharge after a Short or Long Rest. This notation means the monster can use the stat block part once and must then finish a Short or Long Rest to use it
again.

-- 9 of 9 --

=== Monsters (A) - Monster Manual - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond.pdf ===
INTRODUCTION: HOW TO USE A MONSTER 	MONSTERS (B)
Monsters (A)
Aarakocra
Winged Guardians of the Sky
Habitat: Mountain, Planar (Elemental Plane of Air); Treasure: Implements, Individual
Aarakocra are birdlike folk who soar the skies of countless worlds and the endless expanses of the Elemental Plane of Air. They often resemble avians
common to the lands where they dwell; some resemble hawks or condors, while others appear similar to hummingbirds or archaeopteryxes. In many lands,
aarakocra tell of their ancient heroics resisting the wicked Queen of Chaos alongside the mysterious Wind Dukes of Aaqa.
Aarakocra Aeromancer
Aarakocra aeromancers control magical winds from the endless storms of the Elemental Plane of Air.
Aarakocra Skirmisher
Aarakocra skirmishers are adept at fighting aerial foes amid the clouds. They often attack land-bound threats with diving strikes from above.
AARAKOCRA AEROMANCER
AC 16 	Initiative +3 (13)
HP 66 (12d8 + 12)
Speed 20 ft., Fly 50 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	10 	+0 	+0
DEX 	16 	+3 	+5
CON 	12 	+1 	+1
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	13 	+1 	+1
WIS 	17 	+3 	+5
CHA 	12 	+1 	+1
Skills Arcana +3, Nature +5, Perception +7
Senses Passive Perception 17
Languages Aarakocra, Primordial (Auran)
CR 4 (XP 1,100; PB +2)
Actions
Multiattack. The aarakocra makes two Wind Staff attacks, and it can use
Spellcasting to cast
Gust of Wind.
Wind Staff. Melee or Ranged Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft. or range 120 ft.
Hit: 7
(1d8 + 3) Bludgeoning damage plus 11 (2d10) Lightning damage.
Spellcasting. The aarakocra casts one of the following spells, requiring no
Material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save
DC 13):
At Will:
Elementalism,
Gust of Wind,
Mage Hand,
Message
1/Day:
Lightning Bolt
Reactions
Feather Fall (1/Day). The aarakocra casts
Feather Fall in response to that
spell’s trigger, using the same spellcasting ability as Spellcasting.
Medium Elemental, Neutral
ARTIST: AARON MILLER

-- 1 of 20 --

Aboleth
Ageless Alien Mastermind
Habitat: Underdark, Underwater; Treasure: Relics
AARAKOCRA SKIRMISHER
AC 12 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 11 (2d8 + 2)
Speed 20 ft., Fly 50 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	10 	+0 	+0
DEX 	14 	+2 	+2
CON 	12 	+1 	+1
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	11 	+0 	+0
WIS 	12 	+1 	+1
CHA 	11 	+0 	+0
Skills Perception +5
Senses Passive Perception 15
Languages Aarakocra, Primordial (Auran)
CR 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)
Actions
Talons. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) Slashing damage, or
9 (3d4 + 2) Slashing damage if the aarakocra moved 30+ feet straight toward
the target immediately before the hit.
Wind Javelin. Melee or Ranged Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft. or range 30/120 ft.
Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) Piercing damage plus 2 (1d4) Thunder damage.
Hit or Miss:
The javelin magically returns to the aarakocra’s hand immediately after a
ranged attack.
Medium Elemental, Neutral
ARTIST: KEV WALKER

-- 2 of 20 --

In aquatic abysses, aboleths dream of dead empires and orchestrate plots that unfold across ages. These elusive, amphibious immortals physically and
mentally overwhelm their victims and transform creatures with a slimy, aberrant infection, reshaping other beings to serve them beneath the waves.
Aboleths possess terrifying intellects and have alien mindsets. These creatures possess perfect memories of proto-worlds and incomprehensible
dominions from the multiverse’s earliest eons. Their secrets are innumerable and unfathomable. Aboleths lurk in places awash in primordial mysteries: the
ruins of aquatic empires, hidden magical nexuses, or weak places between planes of existence. In these lairs, aboleths dream of epochs past, collect
throngs of psychically dominated servants, consume the minds of unwitting victims, and prepare for their return to power.
Aboleths’ alien goals and methods are often mysterious to other creatures. Roll on or choose a result from the Aboleth Schemes table to inspire an aboleth’s
schemes.
Aboleth Schemes
1d6 	The Aboleth Seeks To...
1 	Accomplish incomprehensible plans that lead it to act in seemingly random ways.
2 	Learn more of the world by kidnapping people and consuming their minds.
3 	Manipulate innocents into worshiping it as a god by using its telepathy from hiding.
4 	Open a gate to the distant past or future, releasing an invasion from another time.
5 	Rouse a dragon turtle, a kraken, or another sea monster to flood a coastal city.
6 	Trick treasure hunters into recovering relics from its long-fallen empire.
Aboleth Lairs
Aboleths usually dwell in submerged ruins and caverns. They keep air-filled spaces for their terrestrial servants and to hold treasures that would be
damaged by water.
The region containing an aboleth’s lair is warped by it, creating the following effects:
A GNOME CULTIST CONSULTS AN ALL-KNOWING ABOLETH

-- 3 of 20 --

Foul Water. Water sources within 1 mile of the lair are supernaturally fouled. Creatures other than the aboleth and its allies that drink such water must
succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or have the Poisoned condition for 1 hour.
Psionic Projection. While in its lair, the aboleth can cast
Project Image, requiring no spell components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability
(spell save DC 16). When casting the spell this way, the spell’s range is 1 mile, and the aboleth can use its telepathy as if it were in the illusion’s space.
If the aboleth dies or moves its lair elsewhere, these effects end immediately.
Air Elemental
Primal Spirit of Wind and Storm
Habitat: Desert, Mountain, Planar (Elemental Plane of Air); Treasure: None
“The lies we call reason are fragile things, vulnerable and raw on
the shores of eons. But in the dream-vaults of dread ancients
roil seas of terrifying truth. Our age is an island, and the ebb of
primordial tides avows the Stygian wave.”
—EVARD, SIGHS OF THE ALL-SEEING WORM
ABOLETH
AC 17 	Initiative +7 (17)
HP 150 (20d10 + 40)
Speed 10 ft., Swim 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	21 	+5 	+5
DEX 	9 	−1 	+3
CON 	15 	+2 	+6
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	18 	+4 	+8
WIS 	15 	+2 	+6
CHA 	18 	+4 	+4
Skills History +12, Perception +10
Senses Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 20
Languages Deep Speech; telepathy 120 ft.
CR 10 (XP 5,900, or 7,200 in lair; PB +4)
Traits
Amphibious. The aboleth can breathe air and water.
Eldritch Restoration. If destroyed, the aboleth gains a new body in 5d10 days,
reviving with all its Hit Points in the Far Realm or another location chosen by
the DM.
Legendary Resistance (3/Day, or 4/Day in Lair). If the aboleth fails a saving
throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
Mucus Cloud. While underwater, the aboleth is surrounded by mucus.
Constitution Saving Throw: DC 14, each creature in a 5-foot Emanation
originating from the aboleth at the end of the aboleth’s turn.
Failure: The target
is cursed. Until the curse ends, the target’s skin becomes slimy, the target can
breathe air and water, and it can’t regain Hit Points unless it is underwater.
While the cursed creature is outside a body of water, the creature takes 6
(1d12) Acid damage at the end of every 10 minutes unless moisture is applied
to its skin before those minutes have passed.
Probing Telepathy. If a creature the aboleth can see communicates
telepathically with the aboleth, the aboleth learns the creature’s
greatest desires.
Actions
Multiattack. The aboleth makes two Tentacle attacks and uses either
Consume Memories or Dominate Mind if available.
Tentacle. Melee Attack Roll: +9, reach 15 ft.
Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) Bludgeoning
damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it has the Grappled
condition (escape DC 14) from one of four tentacles.
Consume Memories. Intelligence Saving Throw: DC 16, one creature within 30
feet that is Charmed or Grappled by the aboleth.
Failure: 10 (3d6) Psychic
damage.
Success: Half damage.
Failure or Success: The aboleth gains the
target’s memories if the target is a Humanoid and is reduced to 0 Hit Points by
this action.
Dominate Mind (2/Day). Wisdom Saving Throw: DC 16, one creature the
aboleth can see within 30 feet.
Failure: The target has the Charmed condition
until the aboleth dies or is on a different plane of existence from the target.
While Charmed, the target acts as an ally to the aboleth and is under its control
while within 60 feet of it. In addition, the aboleth and the target can
communicate telepathically with each other over any distance.
The target repeats the save whenever it takes damage as well as after every 24
hours it spends at least 1 mile away from the aboleth, ending the effect on
itself on a success.
Legendary Actions
Legendary Action Uses: 3 (4 in Lair). Immediately after another creature’s turn,
the aboleth can expend a use to take one of the following actions. The aboleth
regains all expended uses at the start of each of its turns.
Lash. The aboleth makes one Tentacle attack.
Psychic Drain. If the aboleth has at least one creature Charmed or Grappled, it
uses Consume Memories and regains 5 (1d10) Hit Points.
Large Aberration, Lawful Evil
ARTIST: CHRIS COLD

-- 4 of 20 --

Energetic spirits from the Elemental Plane of Air, air elementals gather clouds
and winds into ever-changing bodies with indistinct limbs and vague features.
Beyond their home plane, these elementals might serve magic-users who conjure
them, or they might congregate around nexuses of unbridled planar energy, such
as wind-scoured mountain peaks or endless storms. In battle, air elementals
batter enemies with powerful gusts or transform into whirlwinds to fling away
foes.
Air elementals often have distinctive compositions. Roll on or choose a result from the Air Elemental Compositions table to inspire the elemental’s
appearance.
Air Elemental Compositions
1d6 	The Air Elemental’s Body Features...
1 	Cumulus or cirrus clouds.
2 	A mixture of vibrantly colored gases.
3 	A pungent, sour-looking miasma
4 	Shifting cloud clusters that resemble animals and simple shapes.
5 	Sinister features obscured in a misty mass.
6 	Swirling storm clouds.
AIR ELEMENTAL
AC 15 	Initiative +5 (15)
HP 90 (12d10 + 24)
Speed 10 ft., Fly 90 ft. (hover)
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	14 	+2 	+2
DEX 	20 	+5 	+5
CON 	14 	+2 	+2
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	6 	−2 	−2
WIS 	10 	+0 	+0
CHA 	6 	−2 	−2
Resistances Bludgeoning, Lightning, Piercing, Slashing
Immunities Poison, Thunder; Exhaustion, Grappled, Paralyzed, Petrified,
Poisoned, Prone, Restrained, Unconscious
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 10
Languages Primordial (Auran)
CR 5 (XP 1,800; PB +3)
Traits
Air Form. The elemental can enter a creature’s space and stop there. It can
move through a space as narrow as 1 inch without expending extra movement
to do so.
Actions
Multiattack. The elemental makes two Thunderous Slam attacks.
Thunderous Slam. Melee Attack Roll: +8, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5)
Thunder damage.
Whirlwind (Recharge 4–6). Strength Saving Throw: DC 13, one Medium or
smaller creature in the elemental’s space.
Failure: 24 (4d10 + 2) Thunder
damage, and the target is pushed up to 20 feet straight away from the
elemental and has the Prone condition.
Success: Half damage only.
Large Elemental, Neutral
What can withstand the storm’s scream? The lightning’s spear?
The want of sweet breath? Air is the mightiest of elements—
respect its power.
—HUSAM, SON OF THE BREEZES, RULER OF DJINN

-- 5 of 20 --

Animal Lord
Immortal Regent of the Wild
Habitat: Planar (Beastlands); Treasure: Relics
Animal lords are the immortal spirits of legendary animals. They serve as the divine
protectors of animals of their kind, and they appear as hybrids of humanoids and the animals
they defend. They frequently change into giant, idealized versions of the animals they’re
associated with—albeit with glowing eyes. When contending with people, they sometimes
appear as humanlike beings with subtle, animal-like features. No matter their appearance,
animal lords exhibit the instincts and predilections of the animals they represent, tempered by
their intellect and experience.
Most animal lords make their homes in the Beastlands, but they occasionally journey to the
Feywild or other idyllic realms. They rarely travel to the Material Plane, making exceptions
only when a world faces environmental disaster or droves of animals are otherwise in
jeopardy.
Among the best-known animal lords are those that represent cats, hawks, lizards, and wolves, but animal lords exist for beasts of all types. Some animal
lords even embody creatures that are rare or extinct on Material Plane worlds, like megafauna or dinosaurs. Using their divine might, animal lords can
summon spectral animals, channel spiritual energy, and exhibit powers associated with one of three broad groups: foragers, hunters, or sages. These
powers are tied to an animal lord’s personality and traits associated with the creature it resembles. Roll on or choose results from the relevant Animal Lord
Appearances table to inspire what creature an animal lord resembles.
Forager Animal Lord Appearances
1d10 	Bestial Shape
1 	Bear
2 	Bee
3 	Bison
4 	Capybara
5 	Carp
1d10 	Bestial Shape
6 	Rabbit
7 	Rooster
8 	Sloth
9 	Stag
10 	Vulture
Hunter Animal Lord Appearances
1d10 	Bestial Shape
1 	Alligator
2 	Badger
3 	Bat
4 	Cat
1d10 	Bestial Shape
6 	Mongoose
7 	Praying mantis
8 	Shark
9 	Snake
While I don’t deny the compliment, I assure you, I’m
more akin to a god than a “pretty kitty.”
—BROTHER OF SHADOWS, CAT LORD
ARTIST: VALERA LUTFULLINA

-- 6 of 20 --

1d10 	Bestial Shape
5 	Hawk
1d10 	Bestial Shape
10 	Wolf
Sage Animal Lord Appearances
1d10 	Bestial Shape
1 	Coyote
2 	Crow
3 	Elephant
4 	Lizard
5 	Mouse
1d10 	Bestial Shape
6 	Owl
7 	Salmon
8 	Spider
9 	Turtle
10 	Whale
ANIMAL LORD
AC 19 	Initiative +19 (29)
HP 323 (34d8 + 170)
Speed 60 ft., Fly 60 ft. (hover), Swim 60 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	24 	+7 	+7
DEX 	25 	+7 	+7
CON 	20 	+5 	+11
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	19 	+4 	+4
WIS 	23 	+6 	+12
CHA 	22 	+6 	+6
Skills Acrobatics +13, Athletics +13, Perception +18, Stealth +13
Resistances Cold, Fire, Necrotic, Psychic, Radiant
Immunities Charmed, Frightened, Stunned
Senses Truesight 120 ft.; Passive Perception 28
Languages All
CR 20 (XP 25,000; PB +6)
Traits
Animal Lordship. An animal lord represents a Forager, Hunter, or Sage (DM’s
choice), which determines certain traits in this stat block.
Legendary Resistance (4/Day). If the animal lord fails a saving throw, it can
choose to succeed instead.
Lordly Presence. Wisdom Saving Throw: DC 20, any enemy that starts its turn
in a 30-foot Emanation originating from the animal lord.
Failure: The target
suffers one of the following effects:
Captivated (Forager Only). The target has the Charmed condition until the end
of its next turn. While Charmed, the target has the Incapacitated condition.
Fearful (Hunter Only). The target has the Frightened condition until the end of
its next turn.
Mired (Sage Only). The target takes 10 (3d6) Psychic damage, and the target is
magically bewildered until the end of its next turn. While bewildered, the target
subtracts 1d4 from its saving throws.
Magic Resistance. The animal lord has Advantage on saving throws against
spells and other magical effects.
Actions
Multiattack. The animal lord makes two attacks, using Rend or Radiant Ray in
any combination, and uses Animal Spirit.
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +13, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 14 (2d6 + 7) Slashing damage
plus 7 (2d6) Force damage.
Radiant Ray. Ranged Attack Roll: +12, range 120 ft.
Hit: 20 (4d6 + 6)
Radiant damage.
Animal Spirit. The animal lord conjures an animal spirit that strikes at a
creature and then disappears.
Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 20, one creature
the animal lord can see within 120 feet.
Failure: 28 (4d10 + 6) Radiant
damage.
Success: Half damage.
Failure or Success: One of the following
effects occurs:
Fortify (Forager Only). The animal lord gains 20 Temporary Hit Points.
Marked as Prey (Hunter Only). The animal lord has Advantage on attack rolls
against the target until the start of the animal lord’s next turn.
Pesky Swarm (Sage Only). The target has Disadvantage on attack rolls and
ability checks until the end of its next turn.
Spellcasting. The animal lord casts one of the following spells, requiring no
Material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save
DC 20):
At Will:
Animal Friendship,
Animal Messenger,
Speak with Animals
2/Day Each:
Awaken,
Greater Restoration
1/Day Each (Sage Only):
Animal Shapes,
Sunburst
Bonus Actions
Shape-Shift. The animal lord shape-shifts into a Huge or smaller version of the
animal it represents or a Medium or Small Humanoid, or it returns to its true
form. Its game statistics, other than its size, are the same in each form. Any
equipment it is wearing or carrying isn’t transformed.
Legendary Actions
Legendary Action Uses: 3. Immediately after another creature’s turn, the animal
lord can expend a use to take one of the following actions. The animal lord
regains all expended uses at the start of each of its turns.
Medium Celestial, Neutral

-- 7 of 20 --

Animated Objects
Mundane Objects Come to Life
Habitat: Urban; Treasure: None
Magic can manipulate mundane items, compelling them to perform simple tasks. Such animate objects might be unassuming tools or decorations that
can defend their creator. These objects follow simple instructions from whatever force or magic-user created them. If left unattended, they might defend an
area for ages or repeat a task until they wear out.
Roll on or choose a result from the Animated Object Catalysts table to inspire what sort of magic motivates an ambulatory item.
Animated Object Catalysts
1d10 	The Object Was Animated By...
1 	A Celestial or Fiend using the object to protect or torment a mortal.
2 	A combination of magic and technology, such as alchemy or alien science.
3 	The essence of someone transformed by a supernatural trickster.
4 	Fey as part of their games or wiles.
5 	Happenstance, with the item gaining a semblance of life after a hundred years of use.
Feral Strike. The animal lord moves up to its Speed without provoking
Opportunity Attacks, and it makes one Rend attack.
Radiant Strike. The animal lord makes one Radiant Ray attack.
You call yourself hunter, but your fear makes you smell like prey.
—WIND AND MOON, WOLF LORD
ARTIST: SIMON DOMINIC

-- 8 of 20 --

1d10 	The Object Was Animated By...
6 	A magic-user in need of a guardian or servant.
7 	The song of a magical instrument.
8 	A spirit possessing the object.
9 	Wild magic, a spell that went awry, or a chaotic Artifact.
10 	The will of a powerful psychic being.
Animated Armor
Animated suits of armor might move with steady deliberateness or awkward gaits. They’re often constructed from plate armor, making them easy to
mistake for soldiers or helmed horrors. Other types of armor or even metal statuary might also become animated armor.
Animated Broom
Animated brooms keep their surroundings tidy and defend them when necessary. Launching into the air, these brooms dart about, attacking foes from
unexpected angles. Other flying objects, like animated tools or staffs, might also use this stat block.
Animated Flying Sword
Animated flying swords move as if wielded by unseen warriors. Whether an animated blade is newly forged or a constellation of broken fragments, the
object behaves the same. Other weapons from the
Player’s Handbook can also be animated and use game statistics similar to those here.
ANIMATED ARMOR
AC 18 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 33 (6d8 + 6)
Speed 25 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	14 	+2 	+2
DEX 	11 	+0 	+0
CON 	13 	+1 	+1
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	1 	−5 	−5
WIS 	3 	−4 	−4
CHA 	1 	−5 	−5
Immunities Poison, Psychic; Charmed, Deafened, Exhaustion, Frightened,
Paralyzed, Petrified, Poisoned
Senses Blindsight 60 ft.; Passive Perception 6
Languages None
CR 1 (XP 200; PB +2)
Actions
Multiattack. The armor makes two Slam attacks.
Slam. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) Bludgeoning damage.
Medium Construct, Unaligned
ANIMATED BROOM
AC 15 	Initiative +5 (15)
HP 14 (4d6)
Speed 5 ft., Fly 50 ft. (hover)
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	10 	+0 	+0
DEX 	17 	+3 	+3
CON 	10 	+0 	+0
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	1 	−5 	−5
WIS 	5 	−3 	−3
CHA 	1 	−5 	−5
Immunities Poison, Psychic; Charmed, Deafened, Exhaustion, Frightened,
Paralyzed, Petrified, Poisoned
Senses Blindsight 60 ft.; Passive Perception 7
Languages None
CR 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)
Traits
Flyby. The broom doesn’t provoke an Opportunity Attack when it flies out of an
enemy’s reach.
Actions
Slam. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) Bludgeoning damage.
Small Construct, Unaligned
ANIMATED FLYING SWORD

-- 9 of 20 --

Animated Rug of Smothering
Animated rugs of smothering might attack any creature that steps on them, or they might be passed off as superficially similar magic items, such as
Carpets of Flying, and attack those who speak a supposed command word. Deadly tapestries, furs, and similar items also use this stat block.
Ankheg
Burrowing Insectile Predator
Habitat: Forest, Grassland; Treasure: None
Oversize insects, ankhegs burrow close to the surface, creating sprawling underground labyrinths. From these tunnels, they burst forth to dissolve and
devour smaller creatures using their acid-dripping mandibles and sprays of digestive enzymes.
AC 17 	Initiative +4 (14)
HP 14 (4d6)
Speed 5 ft., Fly 50 ft. (hover)
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	12 	+1 	+1
DEX 	15 	+2 	+4
CON 	11 	+0 	+0
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	1 	−5 	−5
WIS 	5 	−3 	−3
CHA 	1 	−5 	−5
Immunities Poison, Psychic; Charmed, Deafened, Exhaustion, Frightened,
Paralyzed, Petrified, Poisoned
Senses Blindsight 60 ft.; Passive Perception 7
Languages None
CR 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)
Actions
Slash. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2) Slashing damage.
Small Construct, Unaligned
Lyin’ next to the chest were the bones of Cap’n Scornblade
himself, still clutchin’ his rusty sword. Imagine my surprise when
the blade flew from his bony grasp! Still got the scar.
—LEVITY QUICKSTITCH, ROGUE
ANIMATED RUG OF SMOTHERING
AC 12 	Initiative +4 (14)
HP 27 (5d10)
Speed 10 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	17 	+3 	+3
DEX 	14 	+2 	+2
CON 	10 	+0 	+0
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	1 	−5 	−5
WIS 	3 	−4 	−4
CHA 	1 	−5 	−5
Immunities Poison, Psychic; Charmed, Deafened, Exhaustion, Frightened,
Paralyzed, Petrified, Poisoned
Senses Blindsight 60 ft.; Passive Perception 6
Languages None
CR 2 (XP 450; PB +2)
Actions
Smother. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) Bludgeoning
damage. If the target is a Medium or smaller creature, the rug can give it the
Grappled condition (escape DC 13) instead of dealing damage. Until the
grapple ends, the target has the Blinded and Restrained conditions, is
suffocating, and takes 10 (2d6 + 3) Bludgeoning damage at the start of each of
its turns. The rug can smother only one creature at a time.
While grappling the target, the rug can’t take this action, the rug halves
the damage it takes (round down), and the target takes the same amount
of damage.
Large Construct, Unaligned
ARTIST: DOMENICO CAVA

-- 10 of 20 --

Ankhegs are the bane of farmers whose grazing livestock are easy prey for these monsters. Many ankhegs hunt alone, but those in places with ample food
might collect in nests of several dozen and threaten whole towns. Ankheg nests can be challenging to wipe out unless the monsters’ tunnels are cleared out
and their eggs destroyed.
Ankheg tunnels are roughly cylindrical and are often littered with the remains of ankhegs’ meals and subterranean treasures. Roll on or choose a result
from the Ankheg Tunnel Discoveries table to inspire what might be found in an ankheg’s tunnel.
Ankheg Tunnel Discoveries
1d8 	Inside the Ankheg Tunnel Is...
1 	Another tunnel (either natural or of worked stone) that extends into the Underdark.
2 	A buried ruin or grave exposed by the tunnel.
3 	A cluster of 1d4 fresh ankheg eggs that can be broken and used as vials of Acid.
4 	A dead ankheg and evidence of a deadlier subterranean predator.
5 	A piece of ankheg carapace usable as a Shield.
6 	A pouch with 2d6 GP near a puddle of acid.
7 	A stray farm or woodland animal.
8 	A viciously mauled scarecrow.
Though they feed on things under the soil, ankhegs
prefer live meat—your cattle, your dogs, or you.
—FEIL JENKINS, SAGE OF KIRWAK
ANKHEG
AC 14 	Initiative +0 (10)
HP 45 (6d10 + 12)
Speed 30 ft., Burrow 10 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	17 	+3 	+3
DEX 	11 	+0 	+0
CON 	14 	+2 	+2
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	1 	−5 	−5
WIS 	13 	+1 	+1
CHA 	6 	−2 	−2
Large Monstrosity, Unaligned

-- 11 of 20 --

Arcanaloth
Yugoloth of Magical Manipulation
Habitat: Planar (Lower Planes); Treasure: Arcana
While all yugoloths are fiendish manifestations of wickedness and greed, arcanaloths bend
their considerable intellects toward hoarding and exploiting secrets. They then deploy these
secrets to ensnare countless victims and lesser villains, beguiling foes with false promises
and powerful magic.
Arcanaloths possess considerable spellcasting prowess and frequently disguise themselves
with magic. While they prefer to let magical servants or other yugoloths do their fighting for
them, arcanaloths can defend themselves with arcane might, banishing opponents into the
pages of their magic tomes.
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Tremorsense 60 ft.; Passive Perception 11
Languages None
CR 2 (XP 450; PB +2)
Traits
Tunneler. The ankheg can burrow through solid rock at half its Burrow Speed
and leaves a 10-foot-diameter tunnel in its wake.
Actions
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +5 (with Advantage if the target is Grappled by the
ankheg), reach 5 ft.
Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) Slashing damage plus 3 (1d6) Acid
damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it has the Grappled
condition (escape DC 13).
Acid Spray (Recharge 6). Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 12, each creature in
a 30-foot-long, 5-foot-wide Line.
Failure: 14 (4d6) Acid damage.
Success:
Half damage.
ARTIST: JOHN PATRICK GAÑAS
ARCANALOTH
AC 18 	Initiative +5 (15)
HP 175 (27d8 + 54)
Speed 30 ft., Fly 30 ft. (hover)
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	17 	+3 	+3
DEX 	12 	+1 	+5
CON 	14 	+2 	+6
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	20 	+5 	+9
WIS 	16 	+3 	+7
CHA 	17 	+3 	+3
Skills Arcana +9, Deception +7, Insight +7, Perception +7
Resistances Cold, Fire, Lightning
Immunities Acid, Poison; Charmed, Poisoned
Senses Truesight 120 ft.; Passive Perception 17
Languages All; telepathy 120 ft.
CR 12 (XP 8,400; PB +4)
Traits
Fiendish Restoration. If the arcanaloth dies outside Gehenna, its body
dissolves into ichor, and it gains a new body instantly and revives with all its
Hit Points in Gehenna.
Magic Resistance. The arcanaloth has Advantage on saving throws against
spells and other magical effects.
Soul Tome. The arcanaloth has a magic tome. While holding or carrying the
tome, the arcanaloth can use its Banishing Claw action.
The tome has AC 17; HP 35; and Immunity to Necrotic, Poison, and Psychic
damage. The tome regains all its Hit Points at the end of every turn, but it turns
to dust if reduced to 0 Hit Points or when the arcanaloth dies. If the tome is
destroyed, the arcanaloth can create a new one when it finishes a Short or
Long Rest.
Actions
Multiattack. The arcanaloth makes three Fiendish Burst attacks. It can replace
one attack with a Banishing Claw attack.
Banishing Claw (Requires Soul Tome). Melee Attack Roll: +9, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 10
(2d4 + 5) Slashing damage plus 19 (3d12) Psychic damage. If the target is a
creature, it is subjected to the following effect.
Charisma Saving Throw: DC 17.
Failure: The target is trapped in a demiplane inside the Soul Tome. While
trapped there, the target has the Incapacitated condition. At the end of each of
its turns, the target repeats the save, escaping the tome on a success. When
the target escapes, it appears in the space it left or, if that space is occupied,
the nearest unoccupied space.
If the target fails three of these saves while in the demiplane, it becomes
bound to the tome and can escape only if the tome is reduced to 0 Hit Points.
Fiendish Burst. Melee or Ranged Attack Roll: +9, reach 5 ft. or range 120 ft.
Hit:
31 (4d12 + 5) Necrotic damage.
Spellcasting. The arcanaloth casts one of the following spells, requiring no
Material components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell
save DC 17):
At Will:
Alter Self,
Detect Magic,
Identify,
Mage Hand,
Prestidigitation
1/Day Each:
Contact Other Plane,
Detect Thoughts,
Dimension Door,
Mind Blank
Medium Fiend (Yugoloth), Neutral Evil

-- 12 of 20 --

Arch-hag
Hag of Forbidden Secrets and Magical Malice
Habitat: Any; Treasure: Arcana
Immortal and unpredictable, arch-hags hoard secrets and strike magical bargains, altering fate to indulge their fickle whims. These timeless schemers
pursue the secrets of the multiverse and work strange magic in pursuit of their inscrutable goals.
Arch-hags are unpredictable, self-interested, and greedy, with bizarre fascinations and affectations. Nevertheless, they often make deals to further their
plots. These hags are fonts of secret knowledge, particularly lore regarding forbidden magic and multiversal secrets. They might share their knowledge, but
their secrets always have a price. In trade for their secrets, arch-hags might request peculiar errands, valuable magic items, or preternatural currency, like
one’s memories, a year of one’s life, or the ability to cry.
Most arch-hags avoid battle, but if forced to fight, they unleash dangerous magic, such as spectral claws, arcing lightning, and mind-bending spells. An
arch-hag can curse other magic-users, confounding the spellcasters’ incantations and forcing the spellcasters to say the opposite of what they mean. Even
if an arch-hag is brought low, its preparations allow it to magically slip away and begin plotting its revenge.
Every arch-hag has a unique weakness tied to a fateful encounter the hag had in the past or something that embodies the antithesis of the hag’s magic. A
hag goes out of its way to keep this vulnerability secret. Although an arch-hag isn’t physically harmed by its weakness, it can be destroyed only while its
weakness is nearby. Roll on or choose a result from the Arch-hag Anathemas table to inspire an arch-hag’s weakness.
Arch-hag Anathemas
1d10 	The Arch-hag’s Weakness Is...
1 	The bones of the arch-hag’s first love.
2 	A devil’s tear.
Bonus Actions
Teleport. The arcanaloth teleports up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space it
can see.
Reactions
Counterspell. The arcanaloth casts
Counterspell in response to that spell’s
trigger, using the same spellcasting ability as Spellcasting.
ARTIST: DARIO JELUSIC

-- 13 of 20 --

1d10 	The Arch-hag’s Weakness Is...
3 	An egg with a miniature castle inside.
4 	A flower that blooms only when time stops.
5 	A gift from the hag’s twin.
6 	The multiverse’s worst pun.
7 	One of the hag’s missing teeth.
8 	Snow from the top of Mount Celestia.
9 	A star pulled from the sky.
10 	A thread from the Lady of Pain’s robes.
Arch-hag Lairs
Each arch-hag creates a magical home, such as a hidden demiplane, a mansion atop a storm cloud, or—in the case of the arch-hag Baba Yaga—a hut atop
giant chicken legs. The interiors of these lairs frequently change or exhibit bewildering features.
The region containing an arch-hag’s lair is altered by its presence, creating the following effects:
Lapsus Linguae. Creatures (excluding the hag and its allies) within 1 mile of the lair subtract 1d10 from any ability checks they make when they take the
Influence action.
Meddlesome Magic. Whenever a creature other than the hag or its allies finishes a Long Rest while within 1 mile of the lair, the next time that creature casts
a spell using a spell slot, it also casts
Confusion centered on itself. The spell uses the creature’s spellcasting ability and doesn’t require Concentration.
If the arch-hag is destroyed or moves its lair elsewhere, these effects end immediately.
Heh! People who know too much grow old before their time. Ask
me your questions, but be certain that every secret has its cost.
—BABA YAGA, MOTHER OF WITCHES
ARCH-HAG
AC 20 	Initiative +16 (26)
HP 333 (29d10 + 174)
Speed 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	24 	+7 	+7
DEX 	15 	+2 	+9
CON 	23 	+6 	+6
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	19 	+4 	+4
WIS 	19 	+4 	+11
CHA 	25 	+7 	+7
Skills Deception +14, Perception +11, Persuasion +21
Resistances Cold, Fire, Psychic
Immunities Charmed, Exhaustion, Frightened
Senses Truesight 60 ft.; Passive Perception 21
Languages All
CR 21 (XP 33,000, or 41,000 in lair; PB +7)
Traits
Coven Magic. While within 30 feet of at least two hag allies, the hag can cast
one of the following spells, requiring no Material components, using the spell’s
normal casting time, and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell
save DC 19):
Augury,
Find Familiar,
Identify,
Locate Object,
Scrying, or
Unseen
Servant. The hag must finish a Long Rest before using this trait to cast that
spell again.
Legendary Resistance (4/Day, or 5/Day in Lair). If the hag fails a saving throw,
it can choose to succeed instead.
Magic Resistance. The hag has Advantage on saving throws against spells and
other magical effects.
Spiteful Escape. When the hag drops to 0 Hit Points, it dies only if it is within
30 feet of its anathema (a thing the DM chooses as the hag’s most hated
thing). Otherwise, the hag drops to 1 Hit Point and teleports to a harmless
demiplane, and it can’t return to the plane it left for 2d6 days. When the hag
teleports away, each creature within 60 feet of the space it left is cursed. Until
the curse ends, a creature has Disadvantage on ability checks and saving
throws, and the hag knows its location anywhere in the multiverse.
Large Fey, Neutral Evil

-- 14 of 20 --

Assassin
Contract Killer
Habitat: Any; Treasure: Implements, Individual
Assassins are professional killers skilled at stealthily approaching their victims and striking unseen. Most assassins kill for a reason, perhaps hiring
themselves out to wealthy patrons or slaying for an unscrupulous cause. They use poisons and other deadly tools, and they might carry equipment to help
them break into secure areas or avoid capture.
Many assassins adhere to a professional code or exhibit some signature quirk. Roll on or choose a result from the Assassin Modus Operandi table to
inspire an assassin’s distinctive habits.
Actions
Multiattack. The hag makes two Spectral Claw attacks and uses
Crackling Wave.
Spectral Claw. Melee or Ranged Attack Roll: +14, reach 10 ft. or range 60 ft.
Hit: 17 (3d6 + 7) Force damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it
has the Prone condition.
Crackling Wave. Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 22, each creature in a 60-foot
Cone.
Failure: 32 (5d12) Lightning damage.
Success: Half damage.
Failure or
Success: The target is cursed until the end of the hag’s next turn. The target
can’t take Reactions until the curse ends.
Spellcasting. The hag casts one of the following spells, requiring no Material
components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 22):
At Will:
Detect Thoughts,
Dimension Door,
Dispel Magic,
Hypnotic Pattern
2/Day Each:
Mass Suggestion,
Modify Memory,
Plane Shift
Bonus Actions
Witch Strike. Each creature cursed by the hag and within 60 feet of it takes 14
(4d6) Lightning damage.
Reactions
Tongue Twister. The hag casts
Counterspell in response to that spell’s trigger,
using the same spellcasting ability as Spellcasting. If the target fails its saving
throw, it is cursed until the end of its next turn. Until the curse ends, the target
can’t cast spells with a Verbal component, and when it speaks, it says the
opposite of what it means.
Legendary Actions
Legendary Action Uses: 3 (4 in Lair). Immediately after another creature’s turn,
the hag can expend a use to take one of the following actions. The hag
regains all expended uses at the start of each of its turns.
Hag’s Swipe. The hag makes one Spectral Claw attack.
Malicious Magic. The hag uses Spellcasting to cast
Dimension Door or
Hypnotic Pattern. The hag can’t take this action again until the start of its
next turn.
ARTIST: VIKO MENEZES

-- 15 of 20 --

Assassin Modus Operandi
1d6 	The Assassin Is Infamous For...
1 	Arranging their victims in artful tableaux.
2 	Hiding within large objects, such as suits of armor or hollow furnishings.
3 	Leaving behind a signature item, such as a calling card, flower, seashell, or tooth.
4 	Posing as celebrities, holy people, or servants.
5 	Taking trophies from their victims.
6 	Using poison with a distinctive color or smell.
ASSASSIN
AC 16 	Initiative +10 (20)
HP 97 (15d8 + 30)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	11 	+0 	+0
DEX 	18 	+4 	+7
CON 	14 	+2 	+2
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	16 	+3 	+6
WIS 	11 	+0 	+0
CHA 	10 	+0 	+0
Skills Acrobatics +7, Perception +6, Stealth +10
Resistances Poison
Gear Light Crossbow, Shortsword, Studded Leather Armor
Senses Passive Perception 16
Languages Common, Thieves’ Cant
CR 8 (XP 3,900; PB +3)
Traits
Evasion. If the assassin is subjected to an effect that allows it to make a
Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, the assassin instead takes no
damage if it succeeds on the save and only half damage if it fails. It can’t use
this trait if it has the Incapacitated condition.
Actions
Multiattack. The assassin makes three attacks, using Shortsword or Light
Crossbow in any combination.
Shortsword. Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) Piercing damage
plus 17 (5d6) Poison damage, and the target has the Poisoned condition until
the start of the assassin’s next turn.
Light Crossbow. Ranged Attack Roll: +7, range 80/320 ft.
Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4)
Piercing damage plus 21 (6d6) Poison damage.
Bonus Actions
Cunning Action. The assassin takes the Dash, Disengage, or Hide action.
Medium or Small Humanoid, Neutral
ARTIST: VICKI PANGESTU

-- 16 of 20 --

Awakened Plants
Vegetation Given Magical Life
Habitat: Forest; Treasure: None
Magic can invest plants with mobility, sapience, and even a voice. Spells
such as
Awaken or the influence of other planes of existence might bring
mundane vegetation to life, while other remarkable plants might naturally
have these features.
Awakened Shrub
Awakened shrubs can be any sort of small plant, from forest bushes to
clustered flowers. They often appear near awakened trees or in regions
imbued with primal magic. Some have whimsical appearances or foliage
resembling rudimentary facial features, while others look like animate
topiary creatures.
Awakened Tree
Some awakened trees stand in still, meditative states for long periods, making them easy to mistake for normal plants, while others patrol regions of
natural power. Awakened trees are sometimes brought to life by influences from the Feywild, which make them colorful and endlessly blooming, or by
Shadowfell energy, which covers them with grotesque burls or makes them look lifeless.
Just because we protect the forest doesn’t mean it’s
defenseless.
—RIVERGLEAM, PIXIE
AWAKENED SHRUB
AC 9 	Initiative −1 (9)
HP 10 (3d6)
Speed 20 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	3 	−4 	−4
DEX 	8 	−1 	−1
CON 	11 	+0 	+0
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	10 	+0 	+0
WIS 	10 	+0 	+0
CHA 	6 	−2 	−2
Vulnerabilities Fire
Resistances Piercing
Senses Passive Perception 10
Languages Common plus one other language
CR 0 (XP 10; PB +2)
Actions
Rake. Melee Attack Roll: +1, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 1 Slashing damage.
Small Plant, Neutral
AWAKENED TREE
AC 13 	Initiative −2 (8)
HP 59 (7d12 + 14)
Speed 20 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	19 	+4 	+4
DEX 	6 	−2 	−2
CON 	15 	+2 	+2
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	10 	+0 	+0
WIS 	10 	+0 	+0
CHA 	7 	−2 	−2
Vulnerabilities Fire
Huge Plant, Neutral

-- 17 of 20 --

Axe Beaks
Flightless Avian Predators
Habitat: Arctic, Grassland, Hill; Treasure: None
Axe beaks are flightless, birdlike creatures with distinctive axe-shaped
beaks. Swift predators, they chase down prey and use their beaks to hack
through foliage protecting their quarry. Axe beaks live in varied
environments. Colorfully plumed axe beaks race across tropical plains,
while axe beaks with snowy feathers hunt the tundra.
Axe beaks are difficult to train, but those hatched and raised in captivity can
become reliable mounts.
Axe Beak
Alone or in small groups, axe beaks stalk prey to feed their flocks. When working together, axe beaks use rudimentary tactics, with some distracting threats
while others strike vulnerable targets or rush young axe beaks to safety.
Giant Axe Beak
Giant axe beaks typically dwell in secluded, primeval realms, such as isolated islands or underground wildernesses. They often compete with dinosaurs
and other giant beasts for territory.
Resistances Bludgeoning, Piercing
Senses Passive Perception 10
Languages Common plus one other language
CR 2 (XP 450; PB +2)
Actions
Slam. Melee Attack Roll: +6, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 14 (3d6 + 4) Bludgeoning damage.
The thing’s got an axe for a face and a giant, angry
rooster for everything else—of course I want to ride it!
—BATLEY SUMMERFOOT, ADVENTURER
ARTIST: ALEX STONE
AXE BEAK
AC 11 	Initiative +1 (11)
HP 19 (3d10 + 3)
Speed 50 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	14 	+2 	+2
DEX 	12 	+1 	+1
CON 	12 	+1 	+1
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	2 	−4 	−4
WIS 	10 	+0 	+0
CHA 	5 	−3 	−3
Senses Passive Perception 10
Languages None
CR 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)
Actions
Beak. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2) Slashing damage.
Large Monstrosity, Unaligned
GIANT AXE BEAK
AC 15 	Initiative +5 (15)
HP 84 (8d12 + 32)
Speed 50 ft.
Huge Monstrosity, Unaligned

-- 18 of 20 --

Azers
Fiery Smiths of Living Metal
Habitat: Mountain, Planar (Elemental Plane of Fire); Treasure: Armaments, Individual
Azers are living bronze folk who work the primal elements of creation to craft weapons and magical wonders among the multiverse’s mightiest infernos.
Azer Pyromancer
Azer pyromancers conjure flames from the Elemental Plane of Fire to defend themselves and stoke magical forges.
Azer Sentinel
Azer sentinels defend their communities’ smiths and channel their flames through their weapons.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	21 	+5 	+5
DEX 	14 	+2 	+2
CON 	19 	+4 	+4
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	3 	−4 	−4
WIS 	12 	+1 	+1
CHA 	5 	−3 	−3
Skills Perception +4
Senses Passive Perception 14
Languages None
CR 5 (XP 1,800; PB +3)
Actions
Multiattack. The axe beak makes one Sharpened Beak attack and one
Talons attack.
Sharpened Beak. Melee Attack Roll: +8, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 18 (2d12 + 5) Slashing
damage, and a creature within 5 feet of the target (axe beak’s choice) takes 6
(1d12) Slashing damage.
Talons. Melee Attack Roll: +8, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) Piercing damage. If
the target is a Large or smaller creature, it has the Prone condition.
AZER PYROMANCER
AC 18 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 97 (13d8 + 39)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	15 	+2 	+2
DEX 	14 	+2 	+2
CON 	16 	+3 	+6
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	12 	+1 	+1
WIS 	18 	+4 	+7
CHA 	13 	+1 	+1
Skills Arcana +4, Perception +7
Immunities Fire, Poison; Poisoned
Senses Passive Perception 17
Languages Primordial (Ignan)
CR 6 (XP 2,300; PB +3)
Traits
Fire Aura. At the end of each of the azer’s turns, each creature of the azer’s
choice in a 5-foot Emanation originating from the azer takes 11 (2d10) Fire
damage unless the azer has the Incapacitated condition.
Illumination. The azer sheds Bright Light in a 10-foot radius and Dim Light for
an additional 10 feet.
Actions
Multiattack. The azer makes two Flame Burst attacks.
Flame Burst. Melee or Ranged Attack Roll: +7, reach 5 ft. or range 120 ft.
Hit:
15 (2d10 + 4) Fire damage.
Spellcasting. The azer casts one of the following spells, requiring no Material
components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15):
At Will:
Elementalism,
Mage Hand
1/Day:
Fireball
Reactions
Hellish Rebuke (2/Day). The azer casts
Hellish Rebuke in response to that
spell’s trigger, using the same spellcasting ability as Spellcasting.
Medium Elemental, Lawful Neutral
ARTIST: KAI CARPENTER

-- 19 of 20 --

Our Terms of Service and Privacy Notice have recently been updated to provide greater clarity as to how disputes are handled and transparency
regarding the collection and use of personal data. Please review them here: Terms of Service, Privacy Notice. By continuing to use the services, you
agree to the new Terms.
SUPPORT
Help Portal
Support Forum
System Status
Do Not Sell or Share
My Personal
Information
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Notice
System Reference
Document (SRD)
ABOUT
Contact Us
Careers
Wizards of the
Coast
FIND US ON SOCIAL
MEDIA
DOWNLOAD THE D&D BEYOND
APP
© 2017-2026 WIZARDS OF THE COAST LLC | ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
Dungeons & Dragons, D&D Beyond, D&D, Wizards of the Coast, the dragon ampersand, and all other Wizards of the Coast
product names, campaign settings, their respective logos, and The World's Greatest Roleplaying Game are © and trademark
Wizards of the Coast in the U.S.A. and other countries. © 2026 Wizards.
PRIVACY POLICY 	TERMS OF SERVICE
AZER SENTINEL
AC 17 	Initiative +1 (11)
HP 39 (6d8 + 12)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	17 	+3 	+3
DEX 	12 	+1 	+1
CON 	15 	+2 	+4
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	12 	+1 	+1
WIS 	13 	+1 	+1
CHA 	10 	+0 	+0
Immunities Fire, Poison; Poisoned
Senses Passive Perception 11
Languages Primordial (Ignan)
CR 2 (XP 450; PB +2)
Traits
Fire Aura. At the end of each of the azer’s turns, each creature of the azer’s
choice in a 5-foot Emanation originating from the azer takes 5 (1d10) Fire
damage unless the azer has the Incapacitated condition.
Illumination. The azer sheds Bright Light in a 10-foot radius and Dim Light
for an additional 10 feet.
Actions
Burning Hammer. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 8 (1d10 + 3)
Bludgeoning damage plus 3 (1d6) Fire damage.
Medium Elemental, Lawful Neutral

-- 20 of 20 --

=== Monsters (B) - Monster Manual - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond.pdf ===
MONSTERS (A) 	MONSTERS (C)
Monsters (B)
Balor
Demon of Overwhelming Rage
Habitat: Planar (Abyss); Treasure: Armaments
Balors embody demons’ ruinous fury and hatred. Towering, winged terrors, these demonic warlords seethe with wrath, their rage erupting in waves of fire
and as a pair of vicious weapons: a sword of crackling lightning and a whip of lashing flames. A balor’s fury persists until the moment of its demise, at
which point it explodes—a last act of vengeance against those who slew it. Demon lords and evil gods harness balors’ rage by making balors commanders
of armies or guardians of grave secrets.
ARTIST: SIDHARTH CHATURVEDI
BALOR
AC 19 	Initiative +14 (24)
HP 287 (23d12 + 138)
Speed 40 ft., Fly 80 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	26 	+8 	+8
DEX 	15 	+2 	+2
CON 	22 	+6 	+12
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	20 	+5 	+5
WIS 	16 	+3 	+9
CHA 	22 	+6 	+6
Skills Perception +9
Resistances Cold, Lightning
Immunities Fire, Poison; Charmed, Frightened, Poisoned
Senses Truesight 120 ft.; Passive Perception 19
Languages Abyssal; telepathy 120 ft.
CR 19 (XP 22,000; PB +6)
Traits
Death Throes. The balor explodes when it dies.
Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 20,
each creature in a 30-foot Emanation originating from the balor.
Failure: 31
(9d6) Fire damage plus 31 (9d6) Force damage.
Success: Half damage.
Failure
or Success: If the balor dies outside the Abyss, it gains a new body instantly,
reviving with all its Hit Points somewhere in the Abyss.
Huge Fiend (Demon), Chaotic Evil

-- 1 of 44 --

Bandits
Criminals and Scoundrels
Habitat: Any; Treasure: Any
Bandits use the threat of violence to take what they want. Such criminals include gang members, desperadoes, and lawless mercenaries. Yet not all bandits
are motivated by greed. Some are driven to lives of crime by unjust laws, desperation, or the threats of merciless leaders.
Roll on or choose a result from the Bandit Motivations table to determine the circumstances behind a bandit’s crimes.
Bandit Motivations
1d6 	The Bandit...
1 	Fights only oppressors.
2 	Is an ex-soldier who was discarded by their nation and now takes what they were promised.
3 	Is in a gang that views nonmembers as foes.
4 	Hesitantly serves a villainous leader.
Fire Aura. At the end of each of the balor’s turns, each creature in a 5-foot
Emanation originating from the balor takes 13 (3d8) Fire damage.
Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the balor fails a saving throw, it can choose
to succeed instead.
Magic Resistance. The balor has Advantage on saving throws against spells
and other magical effects.
Actions
Multiattack. The balor makes one Flame Whip attack and one Lightning
Blade attack.
Flame Whip. Melee Attack Roll: +14, reach 30 ft.
Hit: 18 (3d6 + 8) Force
damage plus 17 (5d6) Fire damage. If the target is a Huge or smaller creature,
the balor pulls the target up to 25 feet straight toward itself, and the target has
the Prone condition.
Lightning Blade. Melee Attack Roll: +14, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 21 (3d8 + 8) Force
damage plus 22 (4d10) Lightning damage, and the target can’t take Reactions
until the start of the balor’s next turn.
Bonus Actions
Teleport. The balor teleports itself or a willing demon within 10 feet of itself up
to 60 feet to an unoccupied space the balor can see.
ARTIST: KATERINA LADON

-- 2 of 44 --

1d6 	The Bandit...
5 	Secretly works for a government or a regional ruler to sow chaos.
6 	Takes what they need to survive.
Bandit
Bandits are inexperienced ne’er-do-wells who typically follow the orders of higher-ranking bandits.
Bandit Captain
Bandit captains command gangs of scoundrels and conduct straightforward heists. Others serve as guards and muscle for more influential criminals.
Bandit Deceiver
Bandit deceivers use magic to disguise their activities or create flashy distractions.
BANDIT
AC 12 	Initiative +1 (11)
HP 11 (2d8 + 2)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	11 	+0 	+0
DEX 	12 	+1 	+1
CON 	12 	+1 	+1
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	10 	+0 	+0
WIS 	10 	+0 	+0
CHA 	10 	+0 	+0
Gear Leather Armor, Light Crossbow, Scimitar
Senses Passive Perception 10
Languages Common, Thieves’ Cant
CR 1/8 (XP 25; PB +2)
Actions
Scimitar. Melee Attack Roll: +3, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 4 (1d6 + 1) Slashing damage.
Light Crossbow. Ranged Attack Roll: +3, range 80/320 ft.
Hit: 5 (1d8 + 1)
Piercing damage.
Medium or Small Humanoid, Neutral
BANDIT CAPTAIN
AC 15 	Initiative +3 (13)
HP 52 (8d8 + 16)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	15 	+2 	+4
DEX 	16 	+3 	+5
CON 	14 	+2 	+2
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	14 	+2 	+2
WIS 	11 	+0 	+2
CHA 	14 	+2 	+2
Skills Athletics +4, Deception +4
Gear Pistol, Scimitar, Studded Leather Armor
Senses Passive Perception 10
Languages Common, Thieves’ Cant
CR 2 (XP 450; PB +2)
Actions
Multiattack. The bandit makes two attacks, using Scimitar and Pistol in
any combination.
Scimitar. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) Slashing damage.
Pistol. Ranged Attack Roll: +5, range 30/90 ft.
Hit: 8 (1d10 + 3)
Piercing damage.
Reactions
Parry. Trigger: The bandit is hit by a melee attack roll while holding a weapon.
Response: The bandit adds 2 to its AC against that attack, possibly causing it
to miss.
Medium or Small Humanoid, Neutral
BANDIT DECEIVER
AC 16 	Initiative +6 (16)
HP 130 (20d8 + 40)
Speed 30 ft.
Medium or Small Humanoid, Neutral

-- 3 of 44 --

Bandit Crime Lord
Bandit crime lords manipulate shadowy organizations and prioritize their own survival over any single lackey or plot.
Banshee
Wailing Harbinger of Death
Habitat: Any; Treasure: Relics
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	8 	−1 	−1
DEX 	16 	+3 	+6
CON 	14 	+2 	+2
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	17 	+3 	+6
WIS 	12 	+1 	+1
CHA 	16 	+3 	+3
Skills Acrobatics +6, Perception +4, Stealth +9
Gear Daggers (6), Wand
Senses Passive Perception 14
Languages Common, Thieves’ Cant
CR 7 (XP 2,900; PB +3)
Actions
Multiattack. The bandit makes three Dagger attacks.
Dagger. Melee or Ranged Attack Roll: +6, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft.
Hit: 8
(2d4 + 3) Piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) Poison damage.
Blinding Flash (Recharge 4–6). Constitution Saving Throw: DC 14, each
creature in a 10-foot-radius Sphere centered on a point the bandit can see
within 120 feet.
Failure: 13 (3d6 + 3) Radiant damage, and the target has the
Blinded condition until the start of the bandit’s next turn.
Success: Half
damage only.
Spellcasting. The bandit casts one of the following spells, using Intelligence
as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14):
At Will:
Disguise Self,
Mage Hand,
Minor Illusion
1/Day Each:
Hold Person (level 4 version),
Mage Armor (included in AC),
Major Image
I am he who rules the world, don’t you know? One little
piece at a time.
—JARLAXLE
BANDIT CRIME LORD
AC 17 	Initiative +9 (19)
HP 169 (26d8 + 52)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	10 	+0 	+0
DEX 	20 	+5 	+9
CON 	14 	+2 	+6
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	18 	+4 	+4
WIS 	14 	+2 	+2
CHA 	15 	+2 	+2
Skills Acrobatics +9, Perception +10, Stealth +13
Gear Pistols (2), Scimitar, Studded Leather Armor
Senses Passive Perception 20
Languages Common, Thieves’ Cant
CR 11 (XP 7,200; PB +4)
Traits
Evasion. If the bandit is subjected to an effect that allows it to make a
Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, the bandit instead takes no
damage if it succeeds on the save and only half damage if it fails. It can’t use
this trait if it has the Incapacitated condition.
Actions
Multiattack. The bandit makes three attacks, using Scimitar or Pistol in
any combination.
Scimitar. Melee Attack Roll: +9, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) Slashing damage
plus 14 (4d6) Poison damage.
Pistol. Ranged Attack Roll: +9, range 30/90 ft.
Hit: 10 (1d10 + 5) Piercing
damage plus 14 (4d6) Poison damage.
Bonus Actions
Deadly Aim. The bandit gives itself Advantage on the next attack roll it makes
during the current turn. If that attack hits, the target takes an extra 28 (8d6)
Poison damage.
Medium or Small Humanoid, Neutral
ARTIST: DOMENICO CAVA

-- 4 of 44 --

Heralds of doom and plagues on the living, banshees are spirits obsessed by
unresolved bitterness or sorrow. These storied phantoms slay any who glimpse
them or hear their baleful wails. Although any tormented soul can arise as a
banshee, some elven communities particularly fear them and believe that those
who hoard or destroy beauty—natural or otherwise—risk returning as a banshee.
All manner of torments might give rise to a banshee. Roll on or choose a result
from the Banshee Sorrows table to inspire how a banshee’s torment influences its
behavior.
Banshee Sorrows
1d6 	Torment Compels the Banshee To...
1 	Appear prior to a family member’s death.
2 	Haunt the site where it was executed.
3 	Lament a lost love and haunt their grave.
4 	Presage a disaster or tragedy.
5 	Seek the return of a stolen treasure.
6 	Slay those more beautiful than it was in life.
Barbed Devil
Devil of Greed and Obsession
Habitat: Planar (Nine Hells); Treasure: Any
BANSHEE
AC 12 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 54 (12d8)
Speed 5 ft., Fly 40 ft. (hover)
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	1 	−5 	−5
DEX 	14 	+2 	+2
CON 	10 	+0 	+0
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	12 	+1 	+1
WIS 	11 	+0 	+2
CHA 	17 	+3 	+3
Resistances Acid, Bludgeoning, Fire, Lightning, Piercing, Slashing, Thunder
Immunities Cold, Necrotic, Poison; Charmed, Exhaustion, Frightened, Grappled,
Paralyzed, Petrified, Poisoned, Prone, Restrained
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 10
Languages Common, Elvish
CR 4 (XP 1,100; PB +2)
Traits
Detect Life. The banshee magically senses the direction of creatures up to 1
mile away that aren’t Constructs or Undead.
Incorporeal Movement. The banshee can move through other creatures and
objects as if they were Difficult Terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) Force damage if it
ends its turn inside an object.
Actions
Multiattack. The banshee makes two Corrupting Touch attacks and
uses Horrify.
Corrupting Touch. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3)
Necrotic damage.
Horrify. Wisdom Saving Throw: DC 13, one creature the banshee can see within
60 feet that can see the banshee.
Failure: The target has the Frightened
condition until the start of the banshee’s next turn.
Success: The target is
immune to this banshee’s Horrify for 24 hours.
Deathly Wail (1/Day). The banshee releases a mournful wail if it isn’t in
sunlight.
Constitution Saving Throw: DC 13, each creature within 30 feet that
can hear the wail and isn’t a Construct or an Undead.
Failure: If the target has
25 Hit Points or fewer, it drops to 0 Hit Points. Otherwise, the target takes 10
(3d6) Psychic damage.
Medium Undead, Chaotic Evil
ARTIST: YONGJAE CHOI

-- 5 of 44 --

Infernal collectors, barbed devils fanatically protect troves of treasure and scour the planes of existence for additions to their hoards. Also known as
hamatulas among the ranks of the Nine Hells, these devils bedeck their barbed hides with their most prized possessions and trophies taken from those
who failed to steal from them. When threatened, barbed devils strike with their thorny limbs and hurl infernal flame.
Barbed devils often serve as guards and accountants for ice devil generals, pit fiend warlords, archdevils, and similarly powerful villains. In return, barbed
devils gain protection for their own collections. Many barbed devils also maintain networks of imps that search the planes for treasures of interest or
usefully greedy mortals.
Barbed devils rarely collect anything as prosaic as coins and gems. Rather, they pride themselves on having the multiverse’s greatest collection of one kind
of thing—typically items of rare pedigree or emblems of power. Barbed devils refuse to steal what they covet; instead they strike bargains to claim both
treasure and mortal souls.
BARBED DEVIL
AC 15 	Initiative +3 (13)
HP 110 (13d8 + 52)
Speed 30 ft., Climb 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	16 	+3 	+6
DEX 	17 	+3 	+3
CON 	18 	+4 	+7
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	12 	+1 	+1
WIS 	14 	+2 	+5
CHA 	14 	+2 	+5
Skills Deception +5, Insight +5, Perception +8
Resistances Cold
Immunities Fire, Poison; Poisoned
Senses Darkvision 120 ft. (unimpeded by magical Darkness); Passive
Perception 18
Languages Infernal; telepathy 120 ft.
CR 5 (XP 1,800; PB +3)
Traits
Barbed Hide. At the start of each of its turns, the devil deals 5 (1d10) Piercing
damage to any creature it is grappling or any creature grappling it.
Diabolical Restoration. If the devil dies outside the Nine Hells, its body
disappears in sulfurous smoke, and it gains a new body instantly, reviving with
all its Hit Points somewhere in the Nine Hells.
Magic Resistance. The devil has Advantage on saving throws against spells
and other magical effects.
Actions
Multiattack. The devil makes one Claws attack and one Tail attack, or it makes
two Hurl Flame attacks.
Claws. Melee Attack Roll: +6, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) Piercing damage. If
the target is a Large or smaller creature, it has the Grappled condition (escape
DC 13) from both claws.
Tail. Melee Attack Roll: +6, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 14 (2d10 + 3) Slashing damage.
Hurl Flame. Ranged Attack Roll: +5, range 150 ft.
Hit: 17 (5d6) Fire damage.
If the target is a flammable object that isn’t being worn or carried, it
starts burning.
Medium Fiend (Devil), Lawful Evil

-- 6 of 44 --

Barlgura
Demon of Instinct and Primal Violence
Habitat: Planar (Abyss); Treasure: Any
Barlguras are demons that embody brutality and killer instincts. They ruthlessly hunt creatures that enter their territories, whether such places are Abyssal
wildernesses or locations where these demons have been conjured by wicked magic-users. Barlguras litter their territories with fiendish icons and terrifying
evidence of their kills.
Barlguras cooperate with other demons, particularly other barlguras, so long as they have ample prey. Should a region be depleted of creatures to slaughter,
these demons turn on one another in frays that can devastate vast expanses.
Barlguras vary in appearance, but all have powerful frames and hands capable of climbing swiftly and delivering crushing blows. If brute force isn’t enough
to overwhelm their foes, barlguras can use demonic magic to conjure terrifying illusions and grasping vines. Most barlguras resemble nightmarish apes,
and some bear exaggerated versions of features of predators common to the lands the barlguras inhabit. Many embed trophies from past hunts in their
demonic bodies.
ARTIST: IZZY
BARLGURA
AC 15 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 85 (10d10 + 30)
Speed 40 ft., Climb 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	18 	+4 	+4
DEX 	15 	+2 	+5
CON 	16 	+3 	+6
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	7 	−2 	−2
WIS 	14 	+2 	+2
CHA 	9 	−1 	−1
Skills Perception +5, Stealth +5
Resistances Cold, Fire, Lightning
Immunities Poison; Poisoned
Senses Blindsight 30 ft., Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 15
Languages Abyssal; telepathy 120 ft.
CR 5 (XP 1,800; PB +3)
Traits
Demonic Restoration. If the barlgura dies outside the Abyss, its body dissolves
into ichor, and it gains a new body instantly, reviving with all its Hit Points
somewhere in the Abyss.
Actions
Multiattack. The barlgura makes one Tormenting Bite attack and two
Thrash attacks.
Tormenting Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) Piercing
damage plus 13 (2d12) Psychic damage.
Thrash. Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 9 (1d10 + 4) Bludgeoning
damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it has the Prone condition.
Spellcasting. The barlgura casts one of the following spells, requiring no
Material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save
DC 13):
2/Day Each:
Disguise Self,
Invisibility (self only)
1/Day Each:
Entangle,
Phantasmal Killer (level 6 version)
Large Fiend (Demon), Chaotic Evil

-- 7 of 44 --

Basilisk
Reptilian Guardian with a Petrifying Gaze
Habitat: Mountain, Underdark; Treasure: Any
Basilisks are ponderous predators with eight clawed legs, crystalline spines, and mighty jaws. Rather than chasing prey, they use their supernatural gaze to
turn creatures to stone and then consume these victims at their leisure. While basilisks are most comfortable in subterranean lairs, many are captured and
kept by unscrupulous folk seeking guardians for their treasures.
The remains of Petrified creatures litter the area where a basilisk hunts. These might be mundane creatures or more unusual beings that had dire
encounters with a basilisk. Roll on or choose a result from the Petrified Basilisk Victims table to inspire the statues that might appear in a basilisk’s hunting
grounds. There is a 50 percent chance that any of these statues are missing limbs or broken into pieces.
Petrified Basilisk Victims
1d8 	A Basilisk Used Its Gaze to Petrify...
1 	An adventurer with an ornate key hanging around their neck.
2 	Animals like bats, bears, deer, or goats.
3 	A climber clinging to a stalactite.
4 	Itself using a large mirror or shiny surface.
Bonus Actions
Leap. The barlgura jumps up to 40 feet by spending 10 feet of movement.
ARTIST: BRIAN VALEZA
Rule 4: No one carves statues of frightened warriors. If you see
one, keep your eyes closed and your ears open.
—X THE MYSTIC’S
RULES OF DUNGEON SURVIVAL

-- 8 of 44 --

1d8 	A Basilisk Used Its Gaze to Petrify...
5 	A mimic disguised as a chest full of treasure.
6 	A monster such as an umber hulk or a troglodyte.
7 	Someone caught in a comic pose or making a regrettable face.
8 	A victim now being used as a nest for insects or other vermin.
Bearded Devil
Devil of Force and Intimidation
Habitat: Planar (Nine Hells); Treasure: Armaments
Bearded devils, also known as barbazus, fill the legions of the Nine Hells. These cruel soldiers follow the orders of diabolical generals as they defend
infernal realms, invade Material Plane worlds, and clash against demons in planes-spanning conflicts.
Left to their own devices, bearded devils encourage mortals to act callously and abuse their power, inflating their egos and inspiring petty tyrannies. Villains
aligned with the Nine Hells call on bearded devils to serve as guardians, enforce their will, or fight in wicked armies.
Bearded devils’ eponymous beards consist of grotesque, tentacle-like growths. These squirming, barb-riddled beards carry poison capable of preventing
magical healing. Bearded devils are also known for their distinctive glaives, through which they channel hellish energy. Those struck by these unnatural
weapons suffer infernal wounds that grow worse until stanched or magically healed.
BASILISK
AC 15 	Initiative −1 (9)
HP 52 (8d8 + 16)
Speed 20 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	16 	+3 	+3
DEX 	8 	−1 	−1
CON 	15 	+2 	+2
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	2 	−4 	−4
WIS 	8 	−1 	−1
CHA 	7 	−2 	−2
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 9
Languages None
CR 3 (XP 700; PB +2)
Actions
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) Piercing damage plus 7
(2d6) Poison damage.
Bonus Actions
Petrifying Gaze (Recharge 4–6). Constitution Saving Throw: DC 12, each
creature in a 30-foot Cone. If the basilisk sees its reflection in the Cone, the
basilisk must make this save.
First Failure: The target has the Restrained
condition and repeats the save at the end of its next turn if it is still Restrained,
ending the effect on itself on a success.
Second Failure: The target has the
Petrified condition instead of the Restrained condition.
Medium Monstrosity, Unaligned
ARTIST: YONGJAE CHOI

-- 9 of 44 --

BEARDED DEVIL
AC 13 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 58 (9d8 + 18)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	16 	+3 	+5
DEX 	15 	+2 	+2
CON 	15 	+2 	+4
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	9 	−1 	−1
WIS 	11 	+0 	+0
CHA 	14 	+2 	+4
Resistances Cold
Immunities Fire, Poison; Frightened, Poisoned
Senses Darkvision 120 ft. (unimpeded by magical Darkness); Passive
Perception 10
Languages Infernal; telepathy 120 ft.
CR 3 (XP 700; PB +2)
Traits
Magic Resistance. The devil has Advantage on saving throws against spells
and other magical effects.
Actions
Multiattack. The devil makes one Beard attack and one Infernal Glaive attack.
Beard. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) Piercing damage, and
the target has the Poisoned condition until the start of the devil’s next turn.
Until this poison ends, the target can’t regain Hit Points.
Infernal Glaive. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 8 (1d10 + 3) Slashing
damage. If the target is a creature and doesn’t already have an infernal wound,
it is subjected to the following effect.
Constitution Saving Throw: DC 12.
Failure: The target receives an infernal wound. While wounded, the target loses
5 (1d10) Hit Points at the start of each of its turns. The wound closes after 1
minute, after a spell restores Hit Points to the target, or after the target or a
creature within 5 feet of it takes an action to stanch the wound, doing so by
succeeding on a DC 12 Wisdom (Medicine) check.
Medium Fiend (Devil), Lawful Evil
ARTIST: ANDREA PIPARO

-- 10 of 44 --

Behir
Lightning-Spewing Glutton
Habitat: Underdark; Treasure: Any
Twelve-legged, reptilian predators, behirs endlessly hunt for their next meal.
Their short legs propel them quickly across floors and walls. Any prey that
behirs can’t chase down, they blast with breaths of powerful lightning.
Legends claim the first behirs were magically created by storm giants during
an ancient, multiversal conflict between giants and dragons. The giants
used their mastery of weather to alter the essence of blue dragons. The
results were the first behirs, which served as hunters with a particular taste
for dragon eggs.
Behirs live in sprawling cave systems and elaborate ruins where they can
make the most of their exceptional mobility. They are mindful of areas
where dragons dwell, as most dragons view behirs as dangerous
abominations and attack them on sight. Nevertheless, behirs occasionally
hunt for dragon lairs in the hope of finding and devouring unhatched dragon
eggs.
BEHIR
AC 17 	Initiative +3 (13)
HP 168 (16d12 + 64)
Speed 50 ft., Climb 50 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	23 	+6 	+6
DEX 	16 	+3 	+3
CON 	18 	+4 	+4
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	7 	−2 	−2
WIS 	14 	+2 	+2
CHA 	12 	+1 	+1
Skills Perception +6, Stealth +7
Immunities Lightning
Senses Darkvision 90 ft.; Passive Perception 16
Languages Draconic
CR 11 (XP 7,200; PB +4)
Actions
Multiattack. The behir makes one Bite attack and uses Constrict.
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +10, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 19 (2d12 + 6) Piercing damage
plus 11 (2d10) Lightning damage.
Constrict. Strength Saving Throw: DC 18, one Large or smaller creature the
behir can see within 5 feet.
Failure: 28 (5d8 + 6) Bludgeoning damage. The
target has the Grappled condition (escape DC 16), and it has the Restrained
condition until the grapple ends.
Lightning Breath (Recharge 5–6). Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 16, each creature
in a 90-foot-long, 5-foot-wide Line.
Failure: 66 (12d10) Lightning damage.
Success: Half damage.
Bonus Actions
Swallow. Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 18, one Large or smaller creature
Grappled by the behir (the behir can have only one creature swallowed at a
time).
Failure: The behir swallows the target, which is no longer Grappled.
While swallowed, a creature has the Blinded and Restrained conditions, has
Total Cover against attacks and other effects outside the behir, and takes 21
(6d6) Acid damage at the start of each of the behir’s turns.
If the behir takes 30 damage or more on a single turn from the swallowed
creature, the behir must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw at the
end of that turn or regurgitate the creature, which falls in a space within 10 feet
of the behir and has the Prone condition. If the behir dies, a swallowed
creature is no longer Restrained and can escape from the corpse by using 15
feet of movement, exiting Prone.
Huge Monstrosity, Neutral Evil
You wouldn’t believe all the great stuff I’ve swallowed! Now just
climb on in here, and you can keep whatever you find.
—LLUDD, BEHIR

-- 11 of 44 --

Beholder
Infamous Many-Eyed Tyrant
Habitat: Underdark; Treasure: Arcana
Beholders—also known as eye tyrants—number among the most notorious inhabitants of the Underdark. Few creatures in the multiverse are as loathed
and feared as these maniacal horrors.
A beholder’s distinctive, globular body is dominated by an oversize maw and a gigantic central eye. Ten stalks ending in smaller eyes crown its form. From
each of these eleven eyes, a beholder can unleash a different magic power. The central eye can deactivate magic, while the smaller eyes emit rays that
inflict various dooms—such as petrifying creatures, disintegrating them, slaying them outright, or other effects.
Beholders possess utterly alien minds. Most exhibit paranoid, narcissistic, and megalomaniacal tendencies, and they act on agendas beyond human
reasoning. While some keep to themselves, others force weaker creatures into their service. Still others cultivate grand ambitions, creating networks of
minions to manipulate groups, settlements, and whole nations in the Underdark and sometimes the surface world.
Few creatures loathe beholders more than other beholders. Every beholder views itself as the physical and intellectual pinnacle of its species. To them, all
other beholders are aberrant rivals to be dominated or destroyed. Conflicts between beholders can last for decades and lay waste to vast subterranean
realms.
Beholders are a particular threat to adventurers because both gravitate toward mysterious ruins and sites of great magic. Many beholders collect the magic
items and petrified bodies of heroes they’ve defeated, displaying them as trophies.
Beholder Lairs
Beholders lurk in cavern complexes they’ve carved using their eye rays deep in the Underdark or in lairs created for them by their servants.
The region containing a beholder’s lair is twisted by its presence, creating the following effects:
Scopophobia. Creatures within 1 mile of the lair feel as if they’re being watched. Any creature (excluding the beholder and its allies) that finishes a Short
Rest while within 1 mile of the lair must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or gain no benefit from that rest.
Warping Terrain. Minor warps in reality occur near the lair; any creature (excluding the beholder) within 1 mile of the lair that makes a D20 Test and rolls a
1 has the Prone condition.
ARTIST: ERIC BELISLE

-- 12 of 44 --

If the beholder dies or moves its lair elsewhere, these effects end immediately.
Berserkers
Raging Invaders and Impassioned Warriors
Habitat: Any; Treasure: Armaments, Individual
Gripped by the adrenaline of battle, berserkers are reckless invaders, pit fighters, and other ferocious warriors.
Berserker Commander
BEHOLDER
AC 18 	Initiative +12 (22)
HP 190 (20d10 + 80)
Speed 5 ft., Fly 40 ft. (hover)
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	16 	+3 	+3
DEX 	14 	+2 	+2
CON 	18 	+4 	+9
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	17 	+3 	+3
WIS 	15 	+2 	+7
CHA 	17 	+3 	+3
Skills Perception +12
Immunities Prone
Senses Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 22
Languages Deep Speech, Undercommon
CR 13 (XP 10,000, or 11,500 in lair; PB +5)
Traits
Legendary Resistance (3/Day, or 4/Day in Lair). If the beholder fails a saving
throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
Actions
Multiattack. The beholder uses Eye Rays three times.
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +8, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 13 (3d6 + 3) Piercing damage.
Eye Rays. The beholder randomly shoots one of the following magical rays at
a target it can see within 120 feet of itself (roll 1d10; reroll if the beholder has
already used that ray during this turn):
1. Charm Ray.
Wisdom Saving Throw: DC 16.
Failure: 13 (3d8) Psychic
damage, and the target has the Charmed condition for 1 hour or until it
takes damage.
Success: Half damage only.
2. Paralyzing Ray.
Constitution Saving Throw: DC 16.
Failure: The target
has the Paralyzed condition and repeats the save at the end of each of
its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. After 1 minute, it
succeeds automatically.
3. Fear Ray.
Wisdom Saving Throw: DC 16.
Failure: 14 (4d6) Psychic
damage, and the target has the Frightened condition until the end of its
next turn.
Success: Half damage only.
4. Slowing Ray.
Constitution Saving Throw: DC 16.
Failure: 18 (4d8)
Necrotic damage. Until the end of the target’s next turn, the target’s Speed
is halved; the target can’t take Reactions; and it can take either an action
or a Bonus Action on its turn, not both.
Success: Half damage only.
5. Enervation Ray.
Constitution Saving Throw: DC 16.
Failure: 13 (3d8)
Poison damage, and the target has the Poisoned condition until the end
of its next turn. While Poisoned, the target can’t regain Hit Points.
Success: Half damage only.
6. Telekinetic Ray.
Strength Saving Throw: DC 16 (the target succeeds
automatically if it is Gargantuan).
Failure: The beholder moves the target
up to 30 feet in any direction. The target has the Restrained condition
until the start of the beholder’s next turn or until the beholder has the
Incapacitated condition. The beholder can also exert fine control on
objects with this ray, such as manipulating a tool or opening a door or
container.
7. Sleep Ray.
Wisdom Saving Throw: DC 16 (the target succeeds
automatically if it is a Construct or an Undead).
Failure: The target has
the Unconscious condition for 1 minute. The condition ends if the target
takes damage or a creature within 5 feet of it takes an action to wake it.
8. Petrification Ray.
Constitution Saving Throw: DC 16.
First Failure: The
target has the Restrained condition and repeats the save at the end of its
next turn if it is still Restrained, ending the effect on itself on a success.
Second Failure: The target has the Petrified condition instead of the
Restrained condition.
9. Disintegration Ray.
Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 16.
Failure: 36 (8d8) Force
damage. If the target is a nonmagical object or a creation of magical
force, a 10-foot Cube of it disintegrates into dust.
Success: Half damage.
Failure or Success: If the target is a creature and this damage reduces it
to 0 Hit Points, it disintegrates into dust.
10. Death Ray.
Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 16.
Failure: 55 (10d10) Necrotic
damage.
Success: Half damage.
Failure or Success: The target dies if the
ray reduces it to 0 Hit Points.
Bonus Actions
Antimagic Cone. The beholder’s central eye emits an antimagic wave in a
150-foot Cone. Until the start of the beholder’s next turn, that area acts as
an
Antimagic Field spell, and that area works against the beholder’s own
Eye Rays.
Legendary Actions
Legendary Action Uses: 3 (4 in Lair). Immediately after another creature’s turn,
the beholder can expend a use to take one of the following actions. The
beholder regains all expended uses at the start of each of its turns.
Chomp. The beholder makes two Bite attacks.
Glare. The beholder uses Eye Rays.
Large Aberration, Lawful Evil

-- 13 of 44 --

Berserker commanders bear the scars of battle and drive their followers to match their deadly zeal. These commanders tap into a primal magic to enhance
their might.
Berserker
Berserkers might fight for personal glory or form motivated forces or howling hordes.
BERSERKER COMMANDER
AC 16 	Initiative +5 (15)
HP 136 (16d8 + 64)
Speed 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	19 	+4 	+7
DEX 	14 	+2 	+2
CON 	19 	+4 	+7
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	10 	+0 	+0
WIS 	14 	+2 	+2
CHA 	9 	−1 	−1
Skills Athletics +7, Perception +5
Immunities Charmed, Frightened
Gear Greataxe, Javelins (6)
Senses Passive Perception 15
Languages Common
CR 8 (XP 3,900; PB +3)
Traits
Bloodied Frenzy. While Bloodied, the berserker has Advantage on attack rolls
and saving throws.
Actions
Multiattack. The berserker makes three attacks, using Greataxe or Javelin in
any combination.
Greataxe. Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 10 (1d12 + 4) Slashing damage,
plus 10 (3d6) Thunder damage to the target or another creature within 5 feet of
the target.
Javelin. Melee or Ranged Attack Roll: +7, reach 5 ft. or range 30/120 ft.
Hit: 18
(4d6 + 4) Piercing damage, and the target’s Speed decreases by 5 feet until the
start of the berserker’s next turn.
Bonus Actions
Frenzied Rush. Each ally within 30 feet of the berserker can take a Reaction
to move up to half the ally’s Speed without provoking Opportunity Attacks.
The berserker can also move up to half its Speed without provoking
Opportunity Attacks.
Medium or Small Humanoid, Neutral
BERSERKER
AC 13 	Initiative +1 (11)
HP 67 (9d8 + 27)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	16 	+3 	+3
DEX 	12 	+1 	+1
CON 	17 	+3 	+3
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	9 	−1 	−1
WIS 	11 	+0 	+0
CHA 	9 	−1 	−1
Gear Greataxe, Hide Armor
Senses Passive Perception 10
Languages Common
CR 2 (XP 450; PB +2)
Traits
Bloodied Frenzy. While Bloodied, the berserker has Advantage on attack rolls
and saving throws.
Actions
Greataxe. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 9 (1d12 + 3)
Slashing damage.
Medium or Small Humanoid, Neutral
ARTIST: BRYAN SOLA

-- 14 of 44 --

Black Dragons
Dragons of Decay and Despair
Habitat: Swamp; Treasure: Relics
Black dragons delight in suffering and ruin. While other chromatic dragons scheme for power and wealth, these dragons seek to tear down all they see and
rule over what remains.
Black dragons are terrifying creatures with curved horns and withered visages suggestive of fiendish skulls. They typically inhabit stagnant swamps,
crumbling ruins, or places of magical or environmental corruption. Their acid breath scars their domains, eroding the features from ancient statues and
leaving nature with festering wounds.
Black dragons hoard tarnished symbols of hope and relics of fallen empires. The more sought-after the treasure, the more black dragons prize it—
particularly if they were responsible for it being lost.
Black Dragon Wyrmling
Black dragon wyrmlings lurk in bogs and polluted waterways, hunting for prey and weaker creatures to overpower. While older wyrmlings eventually seek
their own territories, recently hatched ones might hunt one another, seeking dominance over their clutch and slaying rivals they can’t subjugate.
BLACK DRAGON WYRMLING
AC 17 	Initiative +4 (14)
HP 33 (6d8 + 6)
Speed 30 ft., Fly 60 ft., Swim 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	15 	+2 	+2
DEX 	14 	+2 	+4
CON 	13 	+1 	+1
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	10 	+0 	+0
WIS 	11 	+0 	+2
CHA 	13 	+1 	+1
Skills Perception +4, Stealth +4
Immunities Acid
Senses Blindsight 10 ft., Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 14
Languages Draconic
CR 2 (XP 450; PB +2)
Traits
Amphibious. The dragon can breathe air and water.
Actions
Multiattack. The dragon makes two Rend attacks.
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) Slashing damage plus 2
(1d4) Acid damage.
Acid Breath (Recharge 5–6). Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 11, each creature
in a 15-foot-long, 5-foot-wide Line.
Failure: 22 (5d8) Acid damage.
Success:
Half damage.
Medium Dragon (Chromatic), Chaotic Evil
BLACK DRAGON WYRMLING
ARTIST: MARTIN MOTTET

-- 15 of 44 --

Young Black Dragon
Most young black dragons claim a hidden lair—typically a dismal place accessible through deadly ruins or a treacherous bog. They delight in exploiting
fearful servants and might terrorize small communities or impress groups of kobolds or troglodytes into their service. Some ally themselves with powerful
undead such as death knights and vampires or aberrations such as aboleths and kuo-toa.
Black Dragon Lairs
Black dragons lurk in dismal ruins, polluted bogs, or other sites gripped by decay.
The region containing an adult or ancient black dragon’s lair is warped by its presence, creating the following effects:
Acrid Haze. Odorous and stifling fog covers the area within 1 mile of the lair, rendering that area Lightly Obscured. Travel for creatures other than the
dragon and its allies takes twice the usual time in that area.
Foul Water. Water sources within 1 mile of the lair are supernaturally fouled. A creature that drinks such water must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution
saving throw or have the Poisoned condition for 1 hour.
If the dragon dies or moves its lair elsewhere, these effects end immediately.
Adult Black Dragon
YOUNG BLACK DRAGON
AC 18 	Initiative +5 (15)
HP 127 (15d10 + 45)
Speed 40 ft., Fly 80 ft., Swim 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	19 	+4 	+4
DEX 	14 	+2 	+5
CON 	17 	+3 	+3
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	12 	+1 	+1
WIS 	11 	+0 	+3
CHA 	15 	+2 	+2
Skills Perception +6, Stealth +5
Immunities Acid
Senses Blindsight 30 ft., Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 16
Languages Common, Draconic
CR 7 (XP 2,900; PB +3)
Traits
Amphibious. The dragon can breathe air and water.
Actions
Multiattack. The dragon makes three Rend attacks.
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 9 (2d4 + 4) Slashing damage plus
3 (1d6) Acid damage.
Acid Breath (Recharge 5–6). Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 14, each creature
in a 30-foot-long, 5-foot-wide Line.
Failure: 49 (14d6) Acid damage.
Success:
Half damage.
Large Dragon (Chromatic), Chaotic Evil
ARTIST: MARTIN MOTTET

-- 16 of 44 --

By the time they’re adults, black dragons are among the greatest terrors in the lands they claim. Wretched swamps and monster-haunted ruins grow more
dismal and spread under an adult black dragon’s influence. Morbid cultists and doomsayers frequently gather in the dragon’s service, bringing with them
undead terrors that answer to the black dragon and aid it in spreading ruin to nearby bastions of beauty and peace.
AN ADULT BLACK DRAGON USES ITS ACID BREATH TO MELT THE CONSTRUCT DEFENDERS OF A CLOCKWORK FORTRESS
ADULT BLACK DRAGON
AC 19 	Initiative +12 (22)
HP 195 (17d12 + 85)
Speed 40 ft., Fly 80 ft., Swim 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	23 	+6 	+6
DEX 	14 	+2 	+7
CON 	21 	+5 	+5
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	14 	+2 	+2
WIS 	13 	+1 	+6
CHA 	19 	+4 	+4
Skills Perception +11, Stealth +7
Immunities Acid
Senses Blindsight 60 ft., Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 21
Languages Common, Draconic
CR 14 (XP 11,500, or 13,000 in lair; PB +5)
Traits
Amphibious. The dragon can breathe air and water.
Legendary Resistance (3/Day, or 4/Day in Lair). If the dragon fails a saving
throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
Actions
Multiattack. The dragon makes three Rend attacks. It can replace one attack
with a use of Spellcasting to cast
Melf’s Acid Arrow (level 3 version).
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +11, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 13 (2d6 + 6) Slashing damage
plus 4 (1d8) Acid damage.
Acid Breath (Recharge 5–6). Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 18, each creature
in a 60-foot-long, 5-foot-wide Line.
Failure: 54 (12d8) Acid damage.
Success:
Half damage.
Spellcasting. The dragon casts one of the following spells, requiring no
Material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell
save DC 17, +9 to hit with spell attacks):
At Will:
Detect Magic,
Fear,
Melf’s Acid Arrow (level 3 version)
1/Day Each:
Speak with Dead,
Vitriolic Sphere
Legendary Actions
Legendary Action Uses: 3 (4 in Lair). Immediately after another creature’s turn,
the dragon can expend a use to take one of the following actions. The dragon
regains all expended uses at the start of each of its turns.
Cloud of Insects. Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 17, one creature the dragon can
see within 120 feet.
Failure: 22 (4d10) Poison damage, and the target has
Disadvantage on saving throws to maintain Concentration until the end of its
next turn.
Failure or Success: The dragon can’t take this action again until the
start of its next turn.
Frightful Presence. The dragon uses Spellcasting to cast
Fear. The dragon
can’t take this action again until the start of its next turn.
Pounce. The dragon moves up to half its Speed, and it makes one Rend attack.
Huge Dragon (Chromatic), Chaotic Evil

-- 17 of 44 --

Ancient Black Dragon
Ancient black dragons plot the ruin of whole realms. They seek magic to corrupt the land, raise undead hordes, bind fiends, and replicate magical disasters.
Ancient black dragons strive to create vast, dead domains where they are the greatest things that remain.
AS TERRIFYING AS IT IS TITANIC, AN ANCIENT BLACK DRAGON
ERADICATES UNWANTED LIFE IN ITS DESPOILED TERRITORY
ARTIST: MARTIN MOTTET
ANCIENT BLACK DRAGON
AC 22 	Initiative +16 (26)
HP 367 (21d20 + 147)
Speed 40 ft., Fly 80 ft., Swim 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	27 	+8 	+8
DEX 	14 	+2 	+9
CON 	25 	+7 	+7
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	16 	+3 	+3
WIS 	15 	+2 	+9
CHA 	22 	+6 	+6
Skills Perception +16, Stealth +9
Immunities Acid
Senses Blindsight 60 ft., Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 26
Languages Common, Draconic
CR 21 (XP 33,000, or 41,000 in lair; PB +7)
Traits
Amphibious. The dragon can breathe air and water.
Legendary Resistance (4/Day, or 5/Day in Lair). If the dragon fails a saving
throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
Actions
Multiattack. The dragon makes three Rend attacks. It can replace one attack
with a use of Spellcasting to cast
Melf’s Acid Arrow (level 4 version).
Gargantuan Dragon (Chromatic), Chaotic Evil

-- 18 of 44 --

Black Pudding
Divisible, Corrosive Blob
Habitat: Underdark; Treasure: None
Black puddings are shapeless masses of predatory cells. Once a pudding detects organic matter, it oozes toward its prey, dissolving living matter and
various objects. If a black pudding is split by lightning or slashing attacks, it divides into two smaller, independent puddings.
Various supernatural conditions might bring black puddings into
being. Roll on or choose a result from the Black Pudding Sources table
to inspire a pudding’s origins.
Black Pudding Sources
1d6 	The Black Pudding Formed From...
1 	An ancient black dragon’s acidic saliva.
2 	The blood or extreme emotions of a foul deity.
3 	Cosmic entropy or ruinous planar forces.
4 	A curse that transformed a forgotten tyrant.
5 	Forbidden or industrialized magic.
6 	Necrotic material animated by aimless spirits.
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +15, reach 15 ft.
Hit: 17 (2d8 + 8) Slashing damage
plus 9 (2d8) Acid damage.
Acid Breath (Recharge 5–6). Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 22, each creature in
a 90-foot-long, 10-foot-wide Line.
Failure: 67 (15d8) Acid damage.
Success:
Half damage.
Spellcasting. The dragon casts one of the following spells, requiring no
Material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell
save DC 21, +13 to hit with spell attacks):
At Will:
Detect Magic,
Fear,
Melf’s Acid Arrow (level 4 version)
1/Day Each:
Create Undead,
Speak with Dead,
Vitriolic Sphere (level 5 version)
Legendary Actions
Legendary Action Uses: 3 (4 in Lair). Immediately after another creature’s turn,
the dragon can expend a use to take one of the following actions. The dragon
regains all expended uses at the start of each of its turns.
Cloud of Insects. Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 21, one creature the dragon can
see within 120 feet.
Failure: 33 (6d10) Poison damage, and the target has
Disadvantage on saving throws to maintain Concentration until the end of its
next turn.
Failure or Success: The dragon can’t take this action again until the
start of its next turn.
Frightful Presence. The dragon uses Spellcasting to cast
Fear. The dragon
can’t take this action again until the start of its next turn.
Pounce. The dragon moves up to half its Speed, and it makes one Rend attack.
ARTIST: STEVEN BELLEDIN
BLACK PUDDING
AC 7 	Initiative −3 (7)
HP 68 (8d10 + 24)
Speed 20 ft., Climb 20 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	16 	+3 	+3
DEX 	5 	−3 	−3
CON 	16 	+3 	+3
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	1 	−5 	−5
WIS 	6 	−2 	−2
CHA 	1 	−5 	−5
Immunities Acid, Cold, Lightning, Slashing; Charmed, Deafened, Exhaustion,
Frightened, Grappled, Prone, Restrained
Senses Blindsight 60 ft.; Passive Perception 8
Languages None
CR 4 (XP 1,100; PB +2)
Traits
Amorphous. The pudding can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch
without expending extra movement to do so.
Large Ooze, Unaligned

-- 19 of 44 --

Blights
Plants Sprouted from Evil
Habitat: Forest; Treasure: None
Blights are malicious plants that sprout from deep-rooted evil. Their gnarled forms twist with fearsome features suggestive of human limbs and vicious
maws. Blights lurk in ambush amid mundane vegetation and lash out at non-Plant creatures. While blights can act independently, they’re usually motivated
by whatever sinister forces spawned them or by wicked creatures with control over nature. The magic that creates blights often affects other vegetation as
well, causing brambles, vines, and gnarled trees to overwhelm roads and fields, choke wells and streams, and force animals from their natural habitat. This
might make blights the first sign of an oncoming wave of corruption.
Twig Blight
Resembling bundles of sticks or dead brush, twig blights easily blend in among deadwood, flotsam, and the wood piles common in many rural settings.
Groups of them are often found near river crossings, forgotten wells, or natural campsites, where they ambush those who let down their guard.
Corrosive Form. A creature that hits the pudding with a melee attack roll takes
4 (1d8) Acid damage. Nonmagical ammunition is destroyed immediately after
hitting the pudding and dealing any damage. Any nonmagical weapon takes a
cumulative −1 penalty to attack rolls immediately after dealing damage to the
pudding and coming into contact with it. The weapon is destroyed if the
penalty reaches −5. The penalty can be removed by casting the
Mending spell
on the weapon.
In 1 minute, the pudding can eat through 2 feet of nonmagical wood or metal.
Spider Climb. The pudding can climb difficult surfaces, including along ceilings,
without needing to make an ability check.
Actions
Dissolving Pseudopod. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 17 (4d6 + 3)
Acid damage. Nonmagical armor worn by the target takes a −1 penalty to the
AC it offers. The armor is destroyed if the penalty reduces its AC to 10. The
penalty can be removed by casting the
Mending spell on the armor.
Reactions
Split. Trigger: While the pudding is Large or Medium and has 10+ Hit Points, it
becomes Bloodied or is subjected to Lightning or Slashing damage.
Response:
The pudding splits into two new Black Puddings. Each new pudding is
one size smaller than the original pudding and acts on its Initiative. The
original pudding’s Hit Points are divided evenly between the new puddings
(round down).
TWIG BLIGHT
AC 14 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 7 (2d6)
Speed 20 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	6 	−2 	−2
DEX 	14 	+2 	+2
CON 	11 	+0 	+0
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	4 	−3 	−3
WIS 	8 	−1 	−1
CHA 	3 	−4 	−4
Skills Stealth +4
Vulnerabilities Fire
Immunities Deafened
Senses Blindsight 60 ft.; Passive Perception 9
Languages Understands Common but can’t speak
CR 1/8 (XP 25; PB +2)
Traits
Pack Tactics. The blight has Advantage on an attack roll against a creature if
at least one of the blight’s allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally
doesn’t have the Incapacitated condition.
Actions
Claw. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) Slashing damage.
Small Plant, Neutral Evil
ARTIST BRIAN VALEZA

-- 20 of 44 --

Needle Blight
Needle blights have vaguely bipedal forms, with gaunt, misshapen limbs. Whether standing unnaturally still or lurching with their awkward gaits, these
blights can’t pass as either normal plants or woodland travelers. Once they spot foes, needle blights attack using their thorn-covered claws or by rapidly
growing and flinging volleys of serrated, needlelike projectiles.
Vine Blight
Vine blights resemble humans wrapped in vines common to the areas in which they grow, from hairy ivy vines to flowering kudzu. They can cause plants to
burst from the ground around themselves and entangle nearby foes.
Unlike most other blights, vine blights can speak. They do so rarely, typically only to convey messages from their masters or to repeat the words of their
victims in rasping voices.
ARTIST: BRIAN VALEZA
NEEDLE BLIGHT
AC 12 	Initiative +1 (11)
HP 16 (3d8 + 3)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	12 	+1 	+1
DEX 	12 	+1 	+1
CON 	13 	+1 	+1
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	4 	−3 	−3
WIS 	8 	−1 	−1
CHA 	3 	−4 	−4
Immunities Deafened
Senses Blindsight 60 ft.; Passive Perception 9
Languages Understands Common but can’t speak
CR 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)
Actions
Claw. Melee Attack Roll: +3, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 6 (2d4 + 1) Slashing damage.
Needles. Ranged Attack Roll: +3, range 30/60 ft.
Hit: 6 (2d4 + 1)
Piercing damage.
Medium Plant, Neutral Evil
LEFT TO RIGHT: VINE BLIGHT, TREE BLIGHT, AND NEEDLE BLIGHT
ARTIST: BRIAN VALEZA
VINE BLIGHT
AC 12 	Initiative −1 (9)
HP 19 (3d8 + 6)
Speed 20 ft.	Medium Plant, Neutral Evil

-- 21 of 44 --

Tree Blight
Tree blights look like ancient, dead trees with gnarled limbs and splintered hollows. Imbued with bloodlust, these blights feed on the living. Evidence of their
past meals is often tangled amid their branches and roots. Tree blights cooperate with other blights, but they attack other tree-shaped beings they
encounter, such as awakened trees and treants.
Gulthias Blight
Ancient plants twisted by evil, Gulthias blights feed on blood and despoil the surrounding land, often giving rise to subservient blights. These cursed plants
take their name from the story of their creation; the first of their kind was a tree that grew from the stake piercing the heart of the vampire Gulthias. These
blights consider all creatures either servants or fertilizer for the blights’ corruption.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	15 	+2 	+2
DEX 	8 	−1 	−1
CON 	14 	+2 	+2
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	5 	−3 	−3
WIS 	10 	+0 	+0
CHA 	3 	−4 	−4
Skills Stealth +1
Immunities Deafened
Senses Blindsight 60 ft.; Passive Perception 10
Languages Common
CR 1/2 (XP 100; PB +2)
Actions
Constricting Vine. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2)
Bludgeoning damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it has the
Grappled condition (escape DC 12). Until the grapple ends, the target takes 4
(1d8) Bludgeoning damage at the start of each of its turns, and the blight can’t
make Constricting Vine attacks.
Entangling Plants (Recharge 5–6). The blight casts the
Entangle spell, using
Constitution as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 12).
TREE BLIGHT
AC 15 	Initiative +3 (13)
HP 115 (10d12 + 50)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	23 	+6 	+6
DEX 	10 	+0 	+0
CON 	20 	+5 	+5
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	6 	−2 	−2
WIS 	10 	+0 	+0
CHA 	3 	−4 	−4
Immunities Deafened
Senses Blindsight 60 ft.; Passive Perception 10
Languages Understands Common and Druidic but can’t speak
CR 7 (XP 2,900; PB +3)
Actions
Multiattack. The blight makes two Branch attacks and uses Grasping Root.
Branch. Melee Attack Roll: +9, reach 15 ft.
Hit: 16 (3d6 + 6)
Bludgeoning damage.
Grasping Root. Strength Saving Throw: DC 17, one Large or smaller creature
the blight can see within 15 feet.
Failure: The target is pulled up to 10 feet
straight toward the blight and has the Grappled condition (escape DC 16) from
one of six roots. Until the grapple ends, the target takes 13 (2d6 + 6)
Bludgeoning damage at the start of each of its turns.
Bonus Actions
Gnash. Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 17, one creature Grappled by the blight.
Failure: 19 (3d8 + 6) Piercing damage.
Success: Half damage.
Huge Plant, Neutral Evil
GULTHIAS BLIGHT
AC 20 	Initiative +5 (15)
HP 264 (16d20 + 96)
Speed 50 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	25 	+7 	+7
DEX 	10 	+0 	+0
CON 	22 	+6 	+6
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	10 	+0 	+0
WIS 	18 	+4 	+4
CHA 	12 	+1 	+1
Skills Perception +9
Resistances Fire, Necrotic
Immunities Deafened
Senses Blindsight 120 ft.; Passive Perception 19
Languages Common, Druidic
CR 16 (XP 15,000; PB +5)
Gargantuan Plant, Neutral Evil

-- 22 of 44 --

Blink Dog
Elusive Feywild Canine
Habitat: Forest, Planar (Feywild); Treasure: None
Blink dogs glimmer with a magic that allows them to teleport, “blinking” from one spot to another. These dogs use this power to chase prey, baffle foes, and
express joy. They’re frequently found among Feywild folk, such as centaurs and pixies—often as members of rollicking hunts between worlds.
Traits
Blight Seeds. When it finishes a Long Rest, the blight expels 1d6 seeds into
unoccupied spaces on the ground within 30 feet of itself. After 24 hours, the
seeds become creatures under the blight’s control. Roll 1d8 for each seed to
determine the creature it becomes: on 1–4,Twig Blight; on 5–6, Needle Blight;
on 7–8, Vine Blight.
Actions
Multiattack. The blight makes two attacks, using Slam or Thorn Volley in any
combination. It also uses Life-Draining Root.
Slam. Melee Attack Roll: +12, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 25 (4d8 + 7)
Bludgeoning damage.
Thorn Volley. Ranged Attack Roll: +12, range 60/180 ft.
Hit: 20 (3d8 + 7)
Piercing damage.
Life-Draining Root. Constitution Saving Throw: DC 20, one Huge or smaller
creature the blight can see within 30 feet.
Failure: 14 (2d6 + 7) Necrotic
damage, and the target has the Grappled condition (escape DC 17) from one of
six roots. Until the grapple ends, the target has the Restrained condition and
takes 14 (4d6) Necrotic damage at the start of each of its turns. The target’s
Hit Point maximum decreases by an amount equal to the Necrotic damage
taken, and the blight regains Hit Points equal to that amount.
ARTIST: BRIAN VALEZA
It lives, though it looks dead. In an age long past, someone
staked a vampire to the earth on this very spot. The wooden
stake was yet green and took root. And so grew the Gulthias
Tree, reverberating with primal power.
—BELAK THE OUTCAST,
DRUID OF THE TWILIGHT GROVE
ARTIST: JOHN PATRICK GAÑAS
BLINK DOG
AC 13 	Initiative +3 (13)
HP 22 (4d8 + 4)
Speed 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	12 	+1 	+1
DEX 	17 	+3 	+3
CON 	12 	+1 	+1
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	10 	+0 	+0
WIS 	13 	+1 	+1
CHA 	11 	+0 	+0
Skills Perception +5, Stealth +5
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 15
Languages Blink Dog; understands Elvish and Sylvan but can’t
speak them
Medium Fey, Lawful Good

-- 23 of 44 --

Blob of Annihilation
All-Consuming Cosmic Entropy Unleashed
Habitat: Any; Treasure: Any
CR 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)
Actions
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3)
Piercing damage.
Bonus Actions
Teleport (Recharge 4–6). The dog teleports up to 40 feet to an
unoccupied space it can see.
ARTIST: MATHIAS KOLLROS

-- 24 of 44 --

The blob of annihilation is a coagulation of cosmic entropy conjoined to the remains of dead gods. This malicious entity drifts through Wildspace and
multiversal expanses inimical to life—vast regions where the chance of encountering it is low.
The blob poses the greatest threat when disasters or nihilistic magic-users summon it to inhabited realms. Once unleashed, the blob of annihilation rolls
across the land in vast, cosmic gyres, with fragments of the blob splitting off to engulf targets. The blob consumes anything it encounters, sweeping
forests, villages, and fortresses into its mass. Within the blob is an expanse without air or gravity where entropic forces destroy whatever they engulf.
Nothing can survive within for long.
Only magic items and the corpses of gods and titans can endure inside the blob. Because of that fact, treasure hunters and theologians sometimes give
themselves the deadly task of trying to retrieve something from within the blob. This quest usually ends in annihilation, but occasionally it results in the
find of a lifetime.
When the blob appears, roll on or choose a result from the Blob of Annihilation Contents table to inspire what extraordinary thing remains within its goop.
Blob of Annihilation Contents
1d10 	The Blob Contains...
1 	An
Amulet of the Planes.
2 	An Artifact of the DM’s choice.
3 	The corpses of two gods who were entangled in battle when the blob consumed them.
4 	A
Cubic Gate.
5 	A
Deck of Many Things.
6 	A magic key that opens a door in Sigil that no other key and no spell can open.
7 	The preserved corpse of an empyrean.
8 	The remains of half a kraken.
9 	The skull of a death god.
10 	A tarrasque that just died.
Honey, I’ve seen horrors that would make you shit your drawers
and reach for the nearest drink. And then there’s the blob of
annihilation. If you see it, run. And if you can’t get away from it,
just hope you dissolve fast.
—VI, ARTIFICER OF EBERRON
BLOB OF ANNIHILATION
AC 18 	Initiative +16 (26)
HP 448 (23d20 + 207)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	27 	+8 	+8
DEX 	14 	+2 	+9
CON 	28 	+9 	+16
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	10 	+0 	+0
WIS 	16 	+3 	+3
CHA 	10 	+0 	+0
Resistances Bludgeoning, Piercing, Slashing
Immunities Acid, Necrotic, Poison; Charmed, Exhaustion, Frightened, Grappled,
Paralyzed, Petrified, Poisoned, Prone, Restrained, Stunned, Unconscious
Senses Blindsight 120 ft.; Passive Perception 13
Languages None
CR 23 (XP 50,000; PB +7)
Gargantuan Ooze (Titan), Neutral Evil

-- 25 of 44 --

Blue Dragons
Dragons of Tyranny and Tempests
Habitat: Coastal, Desert; Treasure: Relics
Arrogant and imperious, blue dragons are chromatic dragons that crave control and collect followers like other dragons hoard treasure. They seek to
transform their territories into empires, domains to be feared by nations.
Blue dragons have sharp features with piercing horns and scales that range from sapphire to the shades of stormy skies. They dwell in deserts and
badlands, particularly regions with dramatic spires from whose tops they might see for miles. They seek lairs near sites of symbolic power, such as the
abandoned fortresses of giants, the colossi of fallen empires, or monuments raised by their followers.
Regalia of rulership and artistic masterpieces fill blue dragons’ hoards. These dragons have no interest in treasures that are common or flawed, preferring
one-of-a-kind gemstones, the crowns of fallen royals, and magic items capable of spreading the dragons’ influence.
Blue Dragon Wyrmling
Blue dragon wyrmlings often serve other powerful creatures, learning the ways of control and establishing fearful reputations among weaker creatures.
Many wyrmlings initially serve loyally, but as their powers grow to match their ambitions, they eventually betray or abandon their associates. These
wyrmlings tempt small groups of creatures into their service, rewarding them with modest treasures and promises of future power.
Traits
Astral Implosion. If the blob is reduced to 0 Hit Points, it implodes and ejects
any creatures and objects engulfed by it into the Astral Sea. The blob itself
vanishes, leaving behind a layer of slime on everything that was within 600
feet of it. In 1d20 years, the blob reconstitutes on a random world in the
Material Plane.
Legendary Resistance (4/Day). If the blob fails a saving throw, it can choose
to succeed instead.
Magic Resistance. The blob has Advantage on saving throws against spells
and other magical effects.
Actions
Multiattack. The blob makes two Pseudopod attacks and uses Engulf. It can
replace one attack with a use of Restraining Glob.
Pseudopod. Melee Attack Roll: +15, reach 30 ft.
Hit: 24 (3d10 + 8)
Force damage.
Engulf. The blob moves up to its Speed and can move through the spaces of
Huge or smaller creatures and objects.
Strength Saving Throw: DC 23, each
creature or object whose space the blob enters for the first time during this
move.
Failure: The target is engulfed. While engulfed, a target has Total Cover
against attacks and other effects outside the blob, and when the blob moves,
the engulfed target moves with it. A nonmagical object is destroyed after
spending 1 minute engulfed.
While engulfed, a creature takes 21 (6d6) Force damage at the start of each of
its turns, is suffocating, has the Restrained condition, and repeats the save at
the end of each of its turns. An engulfed creature that is reduced to 0 Hit
Points dissolves into ash, which is ejected into the Astral Sea.
Success: The target escapes and enters the nearest unoccupied space.
Restraining Glob. The blob lobs a slimy glob at one Large or smaller creature it
can see within 600 feet of itself.
Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 23, the targeted
creature.
Failure: 18 (3d6 + 8) Acid damage. The glob rolls the target 60 feet
straight toward the blob, and the target has the Restrained condition until the
end of its next turn, when the glob harmlessly dissolves.
Success: Half
damage only.
Legendary Actions
Legendary Action Uses: 3. Immediately after another creature’s turn, the blob
can expend a use to take one of the following actions. The blob regains all
expended uses at the start of each of its turns.
Decay. The blob deals 14 (4d6) Necrotic damage to each creature engulfed by
it. The blob can’t take this action again until the start of its next turn.
Grasping Glob. The blob uses Restraining Glob. The blob can’t take this action
again until the start of its next turn.
Lashing Goop. The blob makes one Pseudopod attack.
BLUE DRAGON WYRMLING
AC 17 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 65 (10d8 + 20)
Speed 30 ft., Burrow 15 ft., Fly 60 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	17 	+3 	+3
DEX 	10 	+0 	+2
CON 	15 	+2 	+2
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	12 	+1 	+1
WIS 	11 	+0 	+2
CHA 	15 	+2 	+2
Skills Perception +4, Stealth +2
Immunities Lightning
Medium Dragon (Chromatic), Lawful Evil

-- 26 of 44 --

Young Blue Dragon
Young blue dragons seek to establish themselves as forces to be feared. Many claim isolated communities to rule over or ancient ruins where they might
find magical paths to power. These blue dragons might temporarily cooperate with other dragons or powerful villains to gain followers and influence.
Blue Dragon Lairs
Blue dragons dwell in arid lands. Their lairs might be death traps meant to entomb invaders or ostentatious fortresses where they plot domination.
The region containing an adult or ancient blue dragon’s lair is changed by its presence, creating the following effects:
Sinkholes. Sinkholes form more frequently in the area within 1 mile of the lair. Whenever a creature in that area other than the dragon and its allies finishes
a Long Rest, roll 1d20. On a 1, a sinkhole opens beneath the creature, and the creature must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or fall 2d4 × 10 feet
into the sinkhole.
Spiteful Storms. Dust devils and thunderstorms rage within 1 mile of the lair. The area is Lightly Obscured.
If the dragon dies or moves its lair elsewhere, these effects end immediately.
Adult Blue Dragon
Senses Blindsight 10 ft., Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 14
Languages Draconic
CR 3 (XP 700; PB +2)
Actions
Multiattack. The dragon makes two Rend attacks.
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 8 (1d10 + 3) Slashing damage plus
3 (1d6) Lightning damage.
Lightning Breath (Recharge 5–6). Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 12, each creature
in a 30-foot-long, 5-foot-wide Line.
Failure: 21 (6d6) Lightning damage.
Success: Half damage.
ARTIST: ANTONIO JOSÉ MANZANEDO
YOUNG BLUE DRAGON
AC 18 	Initiative +4 (14)
HP 152 (16d10 + 64)
Speed 40 ft., Burrow 20 ft., Fly 80 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	21 	+5 	+5
DEX 	10 	+0 	+4
CON 	19 	+4 	+4
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	14 	+2 	+2
WIS 	13 	+1 	+5
CHA 	17 	+3 	+3
Skills Perception +9, Stealth +4
Immunities Lightning
Senses Blindsight 30 ft., Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 19
Languages Common, Draconic
CR 9 (XP 5,000; PB +4)
Actions
Multiattack. The dragon makes three Rend attacks.
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +9, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) Slashing damage
plus 5 (1d10) Lightning damage.
Lightning Breath (Recharge 5–6). Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 16, each creature
in a 60-foot-long, 5-foot-wide Line.
Failure: 55 (10d10) Lightning damage.
Success: Half damage.
Large Dragon (Chromatic), Lawful Evil
ARTIST: ANTONIO JOSÉ MANZANEDO

-- 27 of 44 --

Adult blue dragons command small empires, which might be territories of subjugated followers, shadowy criminal networks, or cultic enclaves. Endlessly
suspicious and wary of rivals, these dragons enact elaborate schemes to ruin their foes, test the loyalty of their servants, and ensure their dominance for
centuries.
Ancient Blue Dragon
AN ADULT BLUE DRAGON INVADES THE TERRITORY OF A SILVER DRAGON RIVAL
ADULT BLUE DRAGON
AC 19 	Initiative +10 (20)
HP 212 (17d12 + 102)
Speed 40 ft., Burrow 30 ft., Fly 80 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	25 	+7 	+7
DEX 	10 	+0 	+5
CON 	23 	+6 	+6
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	16 	+3 	+3
WIS 	15 	+2 	+7
CHA 	20 	+5 	+5
Skills Perception +12, Stealth +5
Immunities Lightning
Senses Blindsight 60 ft., Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 22
Languages Common, Draconic
CR 16 (XP 15,000, or 18,000 in lair; PB +5)
Traits
Legendary Resistance (3/Day, or 4/Day in Lair). If the dragon fails a saving
throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
Actions
Multiattack. The dragon makes three Rend attacks. It can replace one attack
with a use of Spellcasting to cast
Shatter.
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +12, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 16 (2d8 + 7) Slashing damage
plus 5 (1d10) Lightning damage.
Lightning Breath (Recharge 5–6). Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 19, each creature
in a 90-foot-long, 5-foot-wide Line.
Failure: 60 (11d10) Lightning damage.
Success: Half damage.
Spellcasting. The dragon casts one of the following spells, requiring no
Material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell
save DC 18):
At Will:
Detect Magic,
Invisibility,
Mage Hand,
Shatter
1/Day Each:
Scrying,
Sending
Legendary Actions
Legendary Action Uses: 3 (4 in Lair). Immediately after another creature’s turn,
the dragon can expend a use to take one of the following actions. The dragon
regains all expended uses at the start of each of its turns.
Cloaked Flight. The dragon uses Spellcasting to cast
Invisibility on itself, and
it can fly up to half its Fly Speed. The dragon can’t take this action again until
the start of its next turn.
Sonic Boom. The dragon uses Spellcasting to cast
Shatter. The dragon can’t
take this action again until the start of its next turn.
Tail Swipe. The dragon makes one Rend attack.
Huge Dragon (Chromatic), Lawful Evil

-- 28 of 44 --

Ancient blue dragons think beyond dominating groups of short-lived servants. Instead, they seek to claim their places above other dragons and their world’s
most powerful inhabitants. If world domination seems too tedious or cliché, these dragons might seek to seize control of extraplanar realms, multiworld
empires, or forces of reality—like life, storms, or time itself.
SHATTERING THE ENEMY’S DEFENSES, AN ANCIENT
BLUE DRAGON LEADS ITS ARMIES IN CONQUEST
ARTIST: ANTONIO JOSÉ MANZANEDO
ANCIENT BLUE DRAGON
AC 22 	Initiative +14 (24)
HP 481 (26d20 + 208)
Speed 40 ft., Burrow 40 ft., Fly 80 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	29 	+9 	+9
DEX 	10 	+0 	+7
CON 	27 	+8 	+8
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	18 	+4 	+4
WIS 	17 	+3 	+10
CHA 	25 	+7 	+7
Skills Perception +17, Stealth +7
Immunities Lightning
Senses Blindsight 60 ft., Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 27
Languages Common, Draconic
CR 23 (XP 50,000, or 62,000 in lair; PB +7)
Traits
Legendary Resistance (4/Day, or 5/Day in Lair). If the dragon fails a saving
throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
Actions
Multiattack. The dragon makes three Rend attacks. It can replace one attack
with a use of Spellcasting to cast
Shatter (level 3 version).
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +16, reach 15 ft.
Hit: 18 (2d8 + 9) Slashing damage
plus 11 (2d10) Lightning damage.
Gargantuan Dragon (Chromatic), Lawful Evil

-- 29 of 44 --

Bone Devil
Devil of Dread and Obedience
Habitat: Planar (Nine Hells); Treasure: Implements
Bone devils are gaunt, nightmarish Fiends with pallid skin stretched tight over frames that combine human and insectile features. Also known as osyluths,
these Fiends command weaker devils and other beings aligned with infernal legions. Bone devils ensure that the commands of hellish sovereigns are
exacted efficiently and that non-devils fulfill their commitments to the Nine Hells. They slay those who renege on infernal deals, sending treacherous mortal
souls to face unspeakable punishments.
When not serving their diabolical masters, bone devils tempt self-obsessed mortals with promises of other creatures’ adulation and obedience. These devils
prop up petty tyrants, helping them grow increasingly calloused and amoral.
Bone devils travel across the multiverse to fulfill diabolical orders. If left with no
other choices, they might conscript mortals to aid them in their vicious goals. Roll
on or choose a result from the Bone Devil Objectives table to inspire a bone
devil’s goals.
Bone Devil Objectives
1d4 	The Bone Devil Seeks To...
1 	Capture a soul that escaped the Nine Hells.
2 Convey a message or make an example of someone in the name of an
archdevil.
3 	Find someone who broke a deal with a devil.
4 Slay someone or steal something as part of its pact with a wicked
magic-user.
Lightning Breath (Recharge 5–6). Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 23, each creature
in a 120-foot-long, 10-foot-wide Line.
Failure: 88 (16d10) Lightning damage.
Success: Half damage.
Spellcasting. The dragon casts one of the following spells, requiring no
Material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell
save DC 22):
At Will:
Detect Magic,
Invisibility,
Mage Hand,
Shatter (level 3 version)
1/Day Each:
Scrying,
Sending
Legendary Actions
Legendary Action Uses: 3 (4 in Lair). Immediately after another creature’s turn,
the dragon can expend a use to take one of the following actions. The dragon
regains all expended uses at the start of each of its turns.
Cloaked Flight. The dragon uses Spellcasting to cast
Invisibility on itself, and
it can fly up to half its Fly Speed. The dragon can’t take this action again until
the start of its next turn.
Sonic Boom. The dragon uses Spellcasting to cast
Shatter (level 3 version).
The dragon can’t take this action again until the start of its next turn.
Tail Swipe. The dragon makes one Rend attack.
ARTIST: NILS HAMM
BONE DEVIL
AC 16 	Initiative +7 (17)
HP 161 (17d10 + 68)
Speed 40 ft., Fly 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	18 	+4 	+8
DEX 	16 	+3 	+3
CON 	18 	+4 	+4
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	13 	+1 	+5
WIS 	14 	+2 	+6
CHA 	16 	+3 	+7
Skills Deception +7, Insight +6
Resistances Cold
Large Fiend (Devil), Lawful Evil

-- 30 of 44 --

Bone Naga
Deathless Serpentine Mind Bender
Habitat: Underdark; Treasure: Relics
Nagas are immortal but not invincible, and powerful magic can end their lives. Bone nagas are skeletal terrors raised from the remains of magically slain
nagas or nagas that were killed but that hadn’t yet rejuvenated. They are granted unlife through rituals practiced by cultists, yuan-ti, and morbid spirit
nagas. These Undead nagas possess magical abilities similar to those they had in life, along with an eerie gaze that can beguile other creatures.
Bone nagas typically obey those who resurrected them, serving their creators as tireless guards and sharing the lore they collected in life. Undeath disrupts
the perfect memory bone nagas enjoyed while alive, leaving them with gaps in their memories or details scrambled into puzzle-like jumbles.
In rare cases, bone nagas continue to pursue the goals they had while alive instead of serving other creatures. Most free-willed bone nagas are evil beings
raised from spirit naga remains, but in unusual instances, bone nagas created from guardian nagas continue good, albeit confused, existences.
Immunities Fire, Poison; Poisoned
Senses Darkvision 120 ft. (unimpeded by magical Darkness); Passive
Perception 12
Languages Infernal; telepathy 120 ft.
CR 9 (XP 5,000; PB +4)
Traits
Diabolical Restoration. If the devil dies outside the Nine Hells, its body
disappears in sulfurous smoke, and it gains a new body instantly, reviving with
all its Hit Points somewhere in the Nine Hells.
Magic Resistance. The devil has Advantage on saving throws against spells
and other magical effects.
Actions
Multiattack. The devil makes two Claw attacks and one Infernal Sting attack.
Claw. Melee Attack Roll: +8, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) Slashing damage.
Infernal Sting. Melee Attack Roll: +8, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 15 (2d10 + 4) Piercing
damage plus 18 (4d8) Poison damage, and the target has the Poisoned
condition until the start of the devil’s next turn. While Poisoned, the target can’t
regain Hit Points.
Bone devils are just one of a thousand reasons never to make a
deal with a devil, but they’re a significant one. Break said deal,
and it’ll likely be one of these nightmares that drags you down
to the Nine Hells.
—SYLVIRA SAVIKAS, CANDLEKEEP SAGE
ARTIST: VIKO MENEZES

-- 31 of 44 --

Brass Dragons
Dragons of Lore and Rapport
Habitat: Desert; Treasure: Arcana
Gregarious and outgoing, brass dragons relish sharing knowledge and stories. Although these metallic dragons favor arid lands, they cheerfully journey
considerable distances to visit friendly creatures, pass on what they’ve learned, and collect news. Though good natured, brass dragons don’t shirk from
combat when necessary, thwarting foes with magical sleep and searing them with flame.
Brass dragons favor warm climes, particularly steppes and rocky or sandy deserts, and they usually dwell near prominent crossroads or oases that
regularly draw visitors. They enjoy adopting Humanoid forms, disguising themselves as traveling merchants, scholars, storytellers, or anyone else invested
in others’ stories.
Brass dragons collect eclectic objects. While such items might seem like
knickknacks, each is part of a story—perhaps a nostalgic memento or evidence of
a tale passed into myth. An old friend’s hat and the crown of the last ruler of a
forgotten dynasty could occupy the same shelf in a brass dragon’s hoard.
Brass Dragon Wyrmling
Brass dragon wyrmlings are relentlessly curious. These dragons eagerly engage
approachable creatures and are quick to explore any place that has an interesting
story. Once they hear tales of adventure, many are keen to start their own quests.
BONE NAGA
AC 15 	Initiative +3 (13)
HP 65 (10d10 + 10)
Speed 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	15 	+2 	+2
DEX 	16 	+3 	+3
CON 	12 	+1 	+1
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	16 	+3 	+3
WIS 	15 	+2 	+2
CHA 	15 	+2 	+2
Immunities Poison; Charmed, Exhaustion, Paralyzed, Poisoned
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 12
Languages Common plus one other language
CR 4 (XP 1,100; PB +2)
Actions
Multiattack. The naga makes two Bite attacks. It can replace any attack with a
use of Serpentine Gaze.
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) Piercing damage plus
7 (2d6) Necrotic damage.
Serpentine Gaze. Wisdom Saving Throw: DC 13, one creature the naga can see
within 60 feet.
Failure: 13 (3d6 + 3) Psychic damage, and the target has the
Charmed condition until the start of the naga’s next turn.
Spellcasting. The naga casts one of the following spells, requiring no Material
components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save
DC 13):
At Will:
Mage Hand,
Thaumaturgy
1/Day Each:
Command,
Detect Thoughts,
Lightning Bolt
Large Undead, Neutral Evil
BRASS DRAGON WYRMLING
ARTIST: CAIO MONTEIRO
BRASS DRAGON WYRMLING
AC 15 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 22 (4d8 + 4)
Speed 30 ft., Burrow 15 ft., Fly 60 ft.
Medium Dragon (Metallic), Chaotic Good

-- 32 of 44 --

Young Brass Dragon
Young brass dragons travel extensively, often spending a few years in a region before circling back to their lair. Some work closely with other metallic
dragons, carrying information between allies.
Brass Dragon Lairs
Brass dragons usually dwell in secret caves and canyons near well-traveled routes.
The area containing an adult or ancient brass dragon’s lair is altered by its presence, creating the following effects:
Mirages. While in its lair, the dragon can cast
Major Image, requiring no Material components and using the same spellcasting ability as its Spellcasting
action. When casting the spell this way, the spell’s range is 1 mile, and the dragon doesn’t need to see the spot where the illusion appears.
Refreshing Water. Water within 1 mile of the lair is magically refreshing. A creature that drinks such water gains 2d4 Temporary Hit Points, and the dragon
is immediately aware of the creature’s presence.
If the dragon dies or moves its lair elsewhere, these effects end immediately.
Adult Brass Dragon
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	15 	+2 	+2
DEX 	10 	+0 	+2
CON 	13 	+1 	+1
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	10 	+0 	+0
WIS 	11 	+0 	+2
CHA 	13 	+1 	+1
Skills Perception +4, Stealth +2
Immunities Fire
Senses Blindsight 10 ft., Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 14
Languages Draconic
CR 1 (XP 200; PB +2)
Actions
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 7 (1d10 + 2) Slashing damage.
Fire Breath (Recharge 5–6). Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 11, each creature
in a 20-foot-long, 5-foot-wide Line.
Failure: 14 (4d6) Fire damage.
Success:
Half damage.
Sleep Breath. Constitution Saving Throw: DC 11, each creature in a 15-foot
Cone.
Failure: The target has the Incapacitated condition until the end of its
next turn, at which point it repeats the save.
Second Failure: The target has the
Unconscious condition for 1 minute. This effect ends for the target if it takes
damage or a creature within 5 feet of it takes an action to wake it.
YOUNG BRASS DRAGON
AC 17 	Initiative +3 (13)
HP 110 (13d10 + 39)
Speed 40 ft., Burrow 20 ft., Fly 80 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	19 	+4 	+4
DEX 	10 	+0 	+3
CON 	17 	+3 	+3
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	12 	+1 	+1
WIS 	11 	+0 	+3
CHA 	15 	+2 	+2
Skills Perception +6, Persuasion +5, Stealth +3
Immunities Fire
Senses Blindsight 30 ft., Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 16
Languages Common, Draconic
CR 6 (XP 2,300; PB +3)
Actions
Multiattack. The dragon makes three Rend attacks. It can replace two attacks
with a use of Sleep Breath.
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 15 (2d10 + 4) Slashing damage.
Fire Breath (Recharge 5–6).
Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 14, each creature
in a 40-foot-long, 5-foot-wide Line.
Failure: 38 (11d6) Fire damage.
Success:
Half damage.
Sleep Breath. Constitution Saving Throw: DC 14, each creature in a 30-foot
Cone.
Failure: The target has the Incapacitated condition until the end of its
next turn, at which point it repeats the save.
Second Failure: The target has the
Unconscious condition for 1 minute. This effect ends for the target if it takes
damage or a creature within 5 feet of it takes an action to wake it.
Large Dragon (Metallic), Chaotic Good
ARTIST: CAIO MONTEIRO

-- 33 of 44 --

Adult brass dragons know many secrets and have vast networks of contacts. These dragons share perspectives they’ve learned from across the world and
passionately combat the lies of con artists and villains that lead people astray.
AN ADULT BRASS DRAGON RIDS ITS NEW LAIR OF UNWELCOME UNDEAD
ADULT BRASS DRAGON
AC 18 	Initiative +10 (20)
HP 172 (15d12 + 75)
Speed 40 ft., Burrow 30 ft., Fly 80 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	23 	+6 	+6
DEX 	10 	+0 	+5
CON 	21 	+5 	+5
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	14 	+2 	+2
WIS 	13 	+1 	+6
CHA 	17 	+3 	+3
Skills History +7, Perception +11, Persuasion +8, Stealth +5
Immunities Fire
Senses Blindsight 60 ft., Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 21
Languages Common, Draconic
CR 13 (XP 10,000, or 11,500 in lair; PB +5)
Traits
Legendary Resistance (3/Day, or 4/Day in Lair). If the dragon fails a saving
throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
Actions
Multiattack. The dragon makes three Rend attacks. It can replace one attack
with a use of (A) Sleep Breath or (B) Spellcasting to cast
Scorching Ray.
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +11, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 17 (2d10 + 6) Slashing damage
plus 4 (1d8) Fire damage.
Fire Breath (Recharge 5–6).
Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 18, each creature
in a 60-foot-long, 5-foot-wide Line.
Failure: 45 (10d8) Fire damage.
Success:
Half damage.
Sleep Breath. Constitution Saving Throw: DC 18, each creature in a 60-foot
Cone.
Failure: The target has the Incapacitated condition until the end of its
next turn, at which point it repeats the save.
Second Failure: The target has the
Unconscious condition for 10 minutes. This effect ends for the target if it
takes damage or a creature within 5 feet of it takes an action to wake it.
Spellcasting. The dragon casts one of the following spells, requiring no
Material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell
save DC 16):
At Will:
Detect Magic,
Minor Illusion,
Scorching Ray,
Shapechange (Beast or
Humanoid form only, no Temporary Hit Points gained from the spell, and no
Concentration or Temporary Hit Points required to maintain the spell),
Speak
with Animals
1/Day Each:
Detect Thoughts,
Control Weather
Legendary Actions
Legendary Action Uses: 3 (4 in Lair). Immediately after another creature’s turn,
the dragon can expend a use to take one of the following actions. The dragon
regains all expended uses at the start of each of its turns.
Blazing Light. The dragon uses Spellcasting to cast
Scorching Ray.
Pounce. The dragon moves up to half its Speed, and it makes one Rend attack.
Scorching Sands. Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 16, one creature the dragon can
see within 120 feet.
Failure: 27 (6d8) Fire damage, and the target’s Speed is
halved until the end of its next turn.
Failure or Success: The dragon can’t take
this action again until the start of its next turn.
Huge Dragon (Metallic), Chaotic Good

-- 34 of 44 --

Ancient Brass Dragon
Ancient brass dragons create worlds-spanning networks. They combat forces of repression and misinformation, helping people learn from the mistakes of
the past. Either personally or through webs of messengers, ancient brass dragons keep allies informed about challenges they can face together.
AN ANCIENT BRASS DRAGON PROTECTS TRAVELERS FROM AN ONCOMING SANDSTORM
ARTIST: CAIO MONTEIRO
ANCIENT BRASS DRAGON
AC 20 	Initiative +12 (22)
HP 332 (19d20 + 133)
Speed 40 ft., Burrow 40 ft., Fly 80 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	27 	+8 	+8
DEX 	10 	+0 	+6
CON 	25 	+7 	+7
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	16 	+3 	+3
WIS 	15 	+2 	+8
CHA 	22 	+6 	+6
Skills History +9, Perception +14, Persuasion +12, Stealth +6
Immunities Fire
Senses Blindsight 60 ft., Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 24
Languages Common, Draconic
CR 20 (XP 25,000, or 33,000 in lair; PB +6)
Traits
Legendary Resistance (4/Day, or 5/Day in Lair). If the dragon fails a saving
throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
Actions
Multiattack. The dragon makes three Rend attacks. It can replace one attack
with a use of (A) Sleep Breath or (B) Spellcasting to cast
Scorching Ray (level
3 version).
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +14, reach 15 ft.
Hit: 19 (2d10 + 8) Slashing damage
plus 7 (2d6) Fire damage.
Gargantuan Dragon (Metallic), Chaotic Good

-- 35 of 44 --

Bronze Dragons
Dragons of Potential and Preservation
Habitat: Coastal; Treasure: Implements
Where bronze dragons dwell, wonders flourish. Imaginative yet mindful, these metallic
dragons work toward greatness and help others achieve all they can. They strive to
preserve innovations, from the works of past civilizations to new discoveries, and they
share such works widely. When dealing with shorter-lived beings, bronze dragons prefer
to win them over through conversation and cultivation, but they don’t shy from battle
when villains keep others from achieving their potential.
Bronze dragons enjoy the power and endless possibilities of the sea, and they often
make their lairs in places of natural beauty or communities they wish to preserve.
Within their dwellings, bronze dragons hoard things they believe will be useful one day.
They salvage treasure lost to the sea, reclaiming wealth or sunken ships.
Bronze Dragon Wyrmling
Bronze dragon wyrmlings believe they can solve any problems, and they seek to prove it. They often fixate on local challenges, such as drought or rampant
banditry. While their zeal can be charming, these wyrmlings can get in over their heads and might then need help correcting mistakes.
Fire Breath (Recharge 5–6).
Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 21, each creature
in a 90-foot-long, 5-foot-wide Line.
Failure: 58 (13d8) Fire damage.
Success:
Half damage.
Sleep Breath. Constitution Saving Throw: DC 21, each creature in a 90-foot
Cone.
Failure: The target has the Incapacitated condition until the end of its
next turn, at which point it repeats the save.
Second Failure: The target has the
Unconscious condition for 10 minutes. This effect ends for the target if it
takes damage or a creature within 5 feet of it takes an action to wake it.
Spellcasting. The dragon casts one of the following spells, requiring no
Material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell
save DC 20):
At Will:
Detect Magic,
Minor Illusion,
Scorching Ray (level 3 version),
Shapechange (Beast or Humanoid form only, no Temporary Hit Points gained
from the spell, and no Concentration or Temporary Hit Points required to
maintain the spell),
Speak with Animals
1/Day Each:
Control Weather,
Detect Thoughts
Legendary Actions
Legendary Action Uses: 3 (4 in Lair). Immediately after another creature’s turn,
the dragon can expend a use to take one of the following actions. The dragon
regains all expended uses at the start of each of its turns.
Blazing Light. The dragon uses Spellcasting to cast
Scorching Ray (level
3 version).
Pounce. The dragon moves up to half its Speed, and it makes one Rend attack.
Scorching Sands. Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 20, one creature the dragon can
see within 120 feet.
Failure: 36 (8d8) Fire damage, and the target’s Speed is
halved until the end of its next turn.
Failure or Success: The dragon can’t take
this action again until the start of its next turn.
BRONZE DRAGON WYRMLING
ARTIST: MATT STEWART
BRONZE DRAGON WYRMLING
AC 15 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 39 (6d8 + 12)
Speed 30 ft., Fly 60 ft., Swim 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	17 	+3 	+3
DEX 	10 	+0 	+2
CON 	15 	+2 	+2
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	12 	+1 	+1
WIS 	11 	+0 	+2
CHA 	15 	+2 	+2
Skills Perception +4, Stealth +2
Immunities Lightning
Senses Blindsight 10 ft., Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 14
Medium Dragon (Metallic), Lawful Good

-- 36 of 44 --

Young Bronze Dragon
Many young bronze dragons become experts in a type of problem, like driving off pirates or protecting communities from storms. Young bronze dragons
collect friends with varied expertise, cultivating a community of experts they can rely on.
Bronze Dragon Lairs
Bronze dragons usually make their homes near or under the sea.
The region containing an adult or ancient bronze dragon’s lair is changed by its presence, creating the following effects:
Buoying Currents. Creatures within 1 mile of the lair that lack a Swim Speed ignore the extra cost of movement while swimming.
Sun and Storms. While in its lair, the dragon can cast
Control Weather, requiring no Material components and using the same spellcasting ability as its
Spellcasting action. When casting the spell this way, the dragon can control the weather within 1 mile of its lair, regardless if the dragon is inside or outside.
If the dragon dies or moves its lair elsewhere, these effects end immediately.
Adult Bronze Dragon
Languages Draconic
CR 2 (XP 450; PB +2)
Traits
Amphibious. The dragon can breathe air and water.
Actions
Multiattack. The dragon makes two Rend attacks.
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 8 (1d10 + 3) Slashing damage.
Lightning Breath (Recharge 5–6) Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 12, each creature
in a 40-foot-long, 5-foot-wide Line.
Failure: 16 (3d10) Lightning damage.
Success: Half damage.
Repulsion Breath. Strength Saving Throw: DC 12, each creature in a 30-foot
Cone.
Failure: The target is pushed up to 30 feet straight away from the dragon
and has the Prone condition.
YOUNG BRONZE DRAGON
AC 17 	Initiative +3 (13)
HP 142 (15d10 + 60)
Speed 40 ft., Fly 80 ft., Swim 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	21 	+5 	+5
DEX 	10 	+0 	+3
CON 	19 	+4 	+4
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	14 	+2 	+2
WIS 	13 	+1 	+4
CHA 	17 	+3 	+3
Skills Insight +4, Perception +7, Stealth +3
Immunities Lightning
Senses Blindsight 30 ft., Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 17
Languages Common, Draconic
CR 8 (XP 3,900; PB +3)
Traits
Amphibious. The dragon can breathe air and water.
Actions
Multiattack. The dragon makes three Rend attacks. It can replace one attack
with a use of Repulsion Breath.
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +8, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) Slashing damage.
Lightning Breath (Recharge 5–6).
Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 15, each creature
in a 60-foot-long, 5-foot-wide Line.
Failure: 49 (9d10) Lightning damage.
Success: Half damage.
Repulsion Breath. Strength Saving Throw: DC 15, each creature in a 30-foot
Cone.
Failure: The target is pushed up to 40 feet straight away from the dragon
and has the Prone condition.
Large Dragon (Metallic), Lawful Good
ARTIST: MATT STEWART

-- 37 of 44 --

Adult bronze dragons often dwell near places they defend or where they help others work toward goals. They might become patrons of whole cities,
advising leaders and helping generations flourish.
AN ADULT BRONZE DRAGON DEFENDS THE DEEP FROM A RAVENOUS GIANT SHARK
ADULT BRONZE DRAGON
AC 18 	Initiative +10 (20)
HP 212 (17d12 + 102)
Speed 40 ft., Fly 80 ft., Swim 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	25 	+7 	+7
DEX 	10 	+0 	+5
CON 	23 	+6 	+6
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	16 	+3 	+3
WIS 	15 	+2 	+7
CHA 	20 	+5 	+5
Skills Insight +7, Perception +12, Stealth +5
Immunities Lightning
Senses Blindsight 60 ft., Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 22
Languages Common, Draconic
CR 15 (XP 13,000, or 15,000 in lair; PB +5)
Traits
Amphibious. The dragon can breathe air and water.
Legendary Resistance (3/Day, or 4/Day in Lair). If the dragon fails a saving
throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
Actions
Multiattack. The dragon makes three Rend attacks. It can replace one attack
with a use of (A) Repulsion Breath or (B) Spellcasting to cast
Guiding Bolt
(level 2 version).
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +12, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 16 (2d8 + 7) Slashing damage
plus 5 (1d10) Lightning damage.
Lightning Breath (Recharge 5–6).
Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 19, each creature
in a 90-foot-long, 5-foot-wide Line.
Failure: 55 (10d10) Lightning damage.
Success: Half damage.
Repulsion Breath. Strength Saving Throw: DC 19, each creature in a 30-foot
Cone.
Failure: The target is pushed up to 60 feet straight away from the dragon
and has the Prone condition.
Spellcasting. The dragon casts one of the following spells, requiring no
Material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell
save DC 17, +10 to hit with spell attacks):
At Will:
Detect Magic,
Guiding Bolt (level 2 version),
Shapechange (Beast or
Humanoid form only, no Temporary Hit Points gained from the spell, and no
Concentration or Temporary Hit Points required to maintain the spell),
Speak
with Animals,
Thaumaturgy
1/Day Each:
Detect Thoughts,
Water Breathing
Legendary Actions
Legendary Action Uses: 3 (4 in Lair). Immediately after another creature’s turn,
the dragon can expend a use to take one of the following actions. The dragon
regains all expended uses at the start of each of its turns.
Guiding Light. The dragon uses Spellcasting to cast
Guiding Bolt (level
2 version).
Pounce. The dragon moves up to half its Speed, and it makes one Rend attack.
Thunderclap. Constitution Saving Throw: DC 17, each creature in a 20-foot-
radius Sphere centered on a point the dragon can see within 90 feet.
Failure: 10
(3d6) Thunder damage, and the target has the Deafened condition until the end
of its next turn.
Huge Dragon (Metallic), Lawful Good

-- 38 of 44 --

Ancient Bronze Dragon
Ancient bronze dragons develop dramatic patinas on their glimmering scales. These dragons strive to protect whole regions, continents, or planets from
threats. They seek solutions to planes-spanning calamities or multiversal perils and oppose the evil of mighty chromatic dragons
AN ANCIENT BRONZE DRAGON USES ITS REPULSION BREATH TO
PROTECT A COMMUNITY FROM RAMPAGING WATER ELEMENTALS
ARTIST: MATT STEWART
ANCIENT BRONZE DRAGON
AC 22 	Initiative +14 (24)
HP 444 (24d20 + 192)
Speed 40 ft., Fly 80 ft., Swim 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	29 	+9 	+9
DEX 	10 	+0 	+7
CON 	27 	+8 	+8
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	18 	+4 	+4
WIS 	17 	+3 	+10
CHA 	25 	+7 	+7
Skills Insight +10, Perception +17, Stealth +7
Immunities Lightning
Senses Blindsight 60 ft., Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 27
Languages Common, Draconic
CR 22 (XP 41,000, or 50,000 in lair; PB +7)
Traits
Amphibious. The dragon can breathe air and water.
Legendary Resistance (4/Day, or 5/Day in Lair). If the dragon fails a saving
throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
Actions
Multiattack. The dragon makes three Rend attacks. It can replace one attack
with a use of (A) Repulsion Breath or (B) Spellcasting to cast
Guiding Bolt
(level 2 version).
Gargantuan Dragon (Metallic), Lawful Good

-- 39 of 44 --

Bugbears
Lurking Goblinoid Brutes
Habitat: Forest, Grassland, Planar (Feywild), Underdark; Treasure: Armaments, Individual
Bugbears embody fear of the wilds and the menace of natural places. They’re notoriously stealthy, and foes that venture into their territories often vanish
without a trace.
Bugbear Stalker
Bugbear stalkers frequently take their victims hostage, relishing opportunities to imprison and terrorize other creatures.
Bugbear Warrior
Bugbear warriors serve those who offer them treasure, food, or the chance to hunt challenging prey.
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +16, reach 15 ft.
Hit: 18 (2d8 + 9) Slashing damage
plus 9 (2d8) Lightning damage.
Lightning Breath (Recharge 5–6).
Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 23, each creature
in a 120-foot-long, 10-foot-wide Line.
Failure: 82 (15d10) Lightning damage.
Success: Half damage.
Repulsion Breath. Strength Saving Throw: DC 23, each creature in a 30-foot
Cone.
Failure: The target is pushed up to 60 feet straight away from the dragon
and has the Prone condition.
Spellcasting. The dragon casts one of the following spells, requiring no
Material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell
save DC 22, +14 to hit with spell attacks):
At Will:
Detect Magic,
Guiding Bolt (level 2 version),
Shapechange (Beast or
Humanoid form only, no Temporary Hit Points gained from the spell, and no
Concentration or Temporary Hit Points required to maintain the spell),
Speak
with Animals,
Thaumaturgy
1/Day Each:
Detect Thoughts,
Control Water,
Scrying,
Water Breathing
Legendary Actions
Legendary Action Uses: 3 (4 in Lair). Immediately after another creature’s turn,
the dragon can expend a use to take one of the following actions. The dragon
regains all expended uses at the start of each of its turns.
Guiding Light. The dragon uses Spellcasting to cast
Guiding Bolt (level
2 version).
Pounce. The dragon moves up to half its Speed, and it makes one Rend attack.
Thunderclap. Constitution Saving Throw: DC 22, each creature in a 20-foot-
radius Sphere centered on a point the dragon can see within 120 feet.
Failure:
13 (3d8) Thunder damage, and the target has the Deafened condition until the
end of its next turn.
BUGBEAR STALKER
AC 15 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 65 (10d8 + 20)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	17 	+3 	+3
DEX 	14 	+2 	+2
CON 	14 	+2 	+4
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	11 	+0 	+0
WIS 	12 	+1 	+3
CHA 	11 	+0 	+0
Skills Stealth +6, Survival +3
Gear Chain Shirt, Javelins (6), Morningstar
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 11
Languages Common, Goblin
CR 3 (XP 700; PB +2)
Traits
Abduct. The bugbear needn’t spend extra movement to move a creature it
is grappling.
Actions
Multiattack. The bugbear makes two Javelin or Morningstar attacks.
Javelin. Melee or Ranged Attack Roll: +5, reach 10 ft. or range 30/120 ft.
Hit:
13 (3d6 + 3) Piercing damage.
Morningstar. Melee Attack Roll: +5 (with Advantage if the target is Grappled by
the bugbear), reach 10 ft.
Hit: 12 (2d8 + 3) Piercing damage.
Bonus Actions
Quick Grapple. Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 13, one Medium or smaller creature
the bugbear can see within 10 feet.
Failure: The target has the Grappled
condition (escape DC 13).
Medium Fey (Goblinoid), Chaotic Evil
BUGBEAR WARRIOR
AC 14 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 33 (6d8 + 6)
Speed 30 ft.
Medium Fey (Goblinoid), Chaotic Evil

-- 40 of 44 --

Bulettes
Ravenous, Subsurface Land Sharks
Habitat: Grassland, Hill, Mountain; Treasure: None
Also called “land sharks,” bulettes are single-minded predators that burrow under, leap over, and burst through obstacles in pursuit of their quarry. They
burrow rapidly just belowground. On sensing movement, they erupt from below, attempting to catch prey in their oversize maws.
Bulette
Bulettes range under vast territories. They often threaten animal herds, and they can wipe out whole farming communities.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	15 	+2 	+2
DEX 	14 	+2 	+2
CON 	13 	+1 	+1
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	8 	−1 	−1
WIS 	11 	+0 	+0
CHA 	9 	−1 	−1
Skills Stealth +6, Survival +2
Gear Hide Armor, Light Hammers (3)
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 10
Languages Common, Goblin
CR 1 (XP 200; PB +2)
Traits
Abduct. The bugbear needn’t spend extra movement to move a creature it
is grappling.
Actions
Grab. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 9 (2d6 + 2) Bludgeoning damage.
If the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it has the Grappled condition
(escape DC 12).
Light Hammer. Melee or Ranged Attack Roll: +4 (with Advantage if the target is
Grappled by the bugbear), reach 10 ft. or range 20/60 ft.
Hit: 9 (3d4 + 2)
Bludgeoning damage.
ARTIST: TARAS SUSAK
BULETTE
AC 17 	Initiative +0 (10)
HP 94 (9d10 + 45)
Speed 40 ft., Burrow 40 ft.	Large Monstrosity, Unaligned

-- 41 of 44 --

Bulette Pup
Juvenile bulettes are known as pups. They travel in small groups, using their numbers to bring down larger foes. Their arrival frequently presages the
appearance of an adult bulette.
Bullywugs
Amphibious Appreciators of Marsh and Muck
Habitat: Swamp; Treasure: Implements, Individual
Fey embodiments of swamplands, bullywugs protect the murky wilds and consider themselves cosmically favored for that role. These human-size, toad- or
frog-like creatures have close relationships with the creatures of the swamp.
Bullywug Bog Sage
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	19 	+4 	+4
DEX 	11 	+0 	+0
CON 	21 	+5 	+5
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	2 	−4 	−4
WIS 	10 	+0 	+0
CHA 	5 	−3 	−3
Skills Perception +6
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Tremorsense 120 ft.; Passive Perception 16
Languages None
CR 5 (XP 1,800; PB +3)
Actions
Multiattack. The bulette makes two Bite attacks.
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 17 (2d12 + 4) Piercing damage.
Deadly Leap. The bulette spends 5 feet of movement to jump to a space within
15 feet that contains one or more Large or smaller creatures.
Dexterity Saving
Throw: DC 15, each creature in the bulette’s destination space.
Failure: 19
(3d12) Bludgeoning damage, and the target has the Prone condition.
Success:
Half damage, and the target is pushed 5 feet straight away from the bulette.
Bonus Actions
Leap. The bulette jumps up to 30 feet by spending 10 feet of movement.
ARTIST: OLIVIER BERNARD
BULETTE PUP
AC 16 	Initiative −1 (9)
HP 45 (6d8 + 18)
Speed 30 ft., Burrow 20 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	16 	+3 	+3
DEX 	8 	−1 	−1
CON 	17 	+3 	+3
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	2 	−4 	−4
WIS 	10 	+0 	+0
CHA 	4 	−3 	−3
Skills Perception +4
Senses Darkvision 30 ft., Tremorsense 60 ft.; Passive Perception 14
Languages None
CR 2 (XP 450; PB +2)
Actions
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 14 (2d10 + 3) Piercing damage.
Bonus Actions
Leap. The bulette jumps up to 30 feet by spending 10 feet of movement.
Medium Monstrosity, Unaligned

-- 42 of 44 --

Bullywug bog sages channel the magic of the swamp to sicken foes and speak with plants.
Bullywug Warrior
Bullywug warriors are adept at moving through swamps and ambushing trespassers. They often work alongside packs of trained giant frogs.
BULLYWUG BOG SAGE
AC 16 	Initiative +3 (13)
HP 52 (8d8 + 16)
Speed 30 ft., Swim 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	8 	−1 	−1
DEX 	16 	+3 	+3
CON 	14 	+2 	+4
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	10 	+0 	+0
WIS 	16 	+3 	+5
CHA 	12 	+1 	+1
Skills Nature +4, Stealth +5
Gear Component Pouch
Senses Passive Perception 13
Languages Bullywug, Common, Sylvan
CR 4 (XP 1,100; PB +2)
Traits
Amphibious. The bullywug can breathe air and water.
Speak with Frogs and Toads. The bullywug can communicate simple concepts
to frogs and toads when it speaks in Bullywug.
Actions
Multiattack. The bullywug makes two Bog Staff attacks. It can replace any
attack with a use of Spellcasting to cast
Ray of Sickness.
Bog Staff. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) Bludgeoning
damage plus 10 (3d6) Poison damage.
Spellcasting. The bullywug casts one of the following spells, using Wisdom as
the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 13, +5 to hit with spell attacks):
At Will:
Dancing Lights,
Druidcraft,
Ray of Sickness
1/Day Each:
Speak with Plants,
Vitriolic Sphere
Bonus Actions
Leap. The bullywug jumps up to 30 feet by spending 10 feet of movement.
Medium Fey, Neutral
BULLYWUG WARRIOR
AC 15 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 11 (2d8 + 2)
Speed 30 ft., Swim 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	12 	+1 	+1
DEX 	14 	+2 	+2
CON 	13 	+1 	+1
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	7 	−2 	−2
WIS 	10 	+0 	+0
CHA 	7 	−2 	−2
Skills Stealth +4
Senses Passive Perception 10
Languages Bullywug, Common
CR 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)
Traits
Amphibious. The bullywug can breathe air and water.
Speak with Frogs and Toads. The bullywug can communicate simple concepts
to frogs and toads when it speaks in Bullywug.
Actions
Insectile Rapier. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2) Piercing
damage plus 2 (1d4) Poison damage.
Bonus Actions
Leap. The bullywug jumps up to 30 feet by spending 10 feet of movement.
Medium Fey, Neutral
ARTIST: SEAN MURRAY

-- 43 of 44 --

Our Terms of Service and Privacy Notice have recently been updated to provide greater clarity as to how disputes are handled and transparency
regarding the collection and use of personal data. Please review them here: Terms of Service, Privacy Notice. By continuing to use the services, you
agree to the new Terms.
SUPPORT
Help Portal
Support Forum
System Status
Do Not Sell or Share
My Personal
Information
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Notice
System Reference
Document (SRD)
ABOUT
Contact Us
Careers
Wizards of the
Coast
FIND US ON SOCIAL
MEDIA
DOWNLOAD THE D&D BEYOND
APP
© 2017-2026 WIZARDS OF THE COAST LLC | ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
Dungeons & Dragons, D&D Beyond, D&D, Wizards of the Coast, the dragon ampersand, and all other Wizards of the Coast
product names, campaign settings, their respective logos, and The World's Greatest Roleplaying Game are © and trademark
Wizards of the Coast in the U.S.A. and other countries. © 2026 Wizards.
PRIVACY POLICY 	TERMS OF SERVICE

-- 44 of 44 --

=== Monsters (C) - Monster Manual - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond.pdf ===
MONSTERS (B) 	MONSTERS (D)
Monsters (C)
Cambion
Mortal Infused with Fiendish Might
Habitat: Any; Treasure: Relics
Cambions are former mortals corrupted by fiendish power or possessed by insidious forces. While tieflings are free-willed individuals with a hint of fiendish
ancestry, cambions are inherently tied to or remade by the wicked magic of the Lower Planes.
Many cambions serve the malevolent forces that are the source of their powers. Others seek to claim the might of whatever created them or to seize
otherworldly powers of their own. Among the most notorious of such cambions is Iuz, a villain who became an evil demigod and whose villainous nation
threatens the Free City of Greyhawk on Oerth.
Cambions come into being in disparate ways. Roll on or choose a result from the Cambion Origins table to determine the source of a cambion’s fiendish
might.
Cambion Origins
1d6 	The Cambion Gained Its Power After...
1 	Being possessed by a fiendish being.
2 	Being resurrected by an evil magic-user.
ARTIST: JUSTIN GERARD
It seems that I must do everything myself, since I have only
fools for servants. Clearly disappointment must ever be the
price of divinity.
—IUZ THE EVIL, CAMBION DEMIGOD

-- 1 of 30 --

1d6 	The Cambion Gained Its Power After...
3 	Lengthy exposure to a Lower Plane.
4 	Making a bargain with a Fiend.
5 	Suffering a god’s curse.
6 	Taking part in fiendish rituals.
Carrion Crawler
Catacomb-Scouring Necrophage
Habitat: Underdark, Urban; Treasure: None
CAMBION
AC 19 	Initiative +4 (14)
HP 105 (14d8 + 42)
Speed 30 ft., Fly 60 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	18 	+4 	+7
DEX 	18 	+4 	+4
CON 	16 	+3 	+6
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	14 	+2 	+5
WIS 	12 	+1 	+1
CHA 	16 	+3 	+6
Skills Deception +6, Perception +4, Stealth +7
Resistances Cold, Fire, Lightning, Poison
Immunities Poisoned
Senses Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 14
Languages Abyssal, Common, Infernal
CR 5 (XP 1,800; PB +3)
Actions
Multiattack. The cambion makes two attacks, using Claw or Fire Ray in
any combination.
Claw. Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) Slashing damage plus 7
(2d6) Fire damage.
Fire Ray. Ranged Attack Roll: +7, range 120 ft.
Hit: 13 (3d6 + 3) Fire damage.
Spellcasting. The cambion casts one of the following spells, requiring no
Material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell
save DC 14):
2/Day Each:
Alter Self,
Command (level 3 version),
Detect Magic
1/Day Each:
Dominate Person (level 8 version),
Plane Shift (self only)
Medium Fiend, Neutral Evil
ARTIST: BRIAN VALEZA

-- 2 of 30 --

Ravenous corpse eaters, carrion crawlers gravitate toward places of slaughter and decay. In such charnel environs, they feast on the dead with no qualms
about their meals’ origins or freshness.
Carrion crawlers have segmented bodies like gigantic cutworms. From beneath their multipart maws protrude eight thin, lashing tentacles. Creatures struck
by these tentacles risk being paralyzed and consumed.
Carrion crawlers scour sewers, battlefields, necropolises, and fetid wildernesses for corpses, clinging to ceilings to ambush smaller prey and to avoid
competing hunters. They’re drawn to light and the scent of blood, recognizing them as signs of food.
These scavengers avoid ingesting inorganic material. Crypts with funeral armors sucked clean of their corpses and eerily pristine catacombs are signs of
infestation by carrion crawlers.
Centaurs
Defenders of the Feywild
Habitat: Forest, Grassland, Planar (Feywild); Treasure: Armaments, Individual
Centaurs are defenders of forests, plains, and sites of primeval power. With upper
bodies like humans’ and the lower bodies of horses, centaurs charge into battle against
those who would harm their allies.
Centaur Warden
Centaur wardens often lead groups of centaur troopers and act as intermediaries
between Fey creatures and trespassers into their territories.
CARRION CRAWLER
AC 13 	Initiative +1 (11)
HP 51 (6d10 + 18)
Speed 30 ft., Climb 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	14 	+2 	+2
DEX 	13 	+1 	+1
CON 	16 	+3 	+3
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	1 	−5 	−5
WIS 	12 	+1 	+1
CHA 	5 	−3 	−3
Skills Perception +5
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 15
Languages None
CR 2 (XP 450; PB +2)
Traits
Spider Climb. The carrion crawler can climb difficult surfaces, including along
ceilings, without needing to make an ability check.
Actions
Multiattack. The carrion crawler uses Paralyzing Tentacles and makes one
Bite attack.
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 7 (2d4 + 2) Piercing damage plus 3
(1d6) Poison damage.
Paralyzing Tentacles. Constitution Saving Throw: DC 12, one creature the
carrion crawler can see within 10 feet.
Failure: The target has the Poisoned
condition and repeats the save at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect
on itself on a success. After 1 minute, it succeeds automatically. While
Poisoned, the target has the Paralyzed condition.
Large Monstrosity, Unaligned
ARTIST: ERIC BELISLE
CENTAUR WARDEN
AC 16 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 105 (14d10 + 28)
Speed 50 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	18 	+4 	+4
DEX 	14 	+2 	+2
CON 	14 	+2 	+5
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	9 	−1 	−1
WIS 	18 	+4 	+7
CHA 	11 	+0 	+0
Large Fey, Neutral Good

-- 3 of 30 --

Centaur Trooper
Centaur troopers are knight-like guardians. Many are suspicious of non-Fey creatures.
Chain Devil
Devil of Pain and Control
Habitat: Planar (Nine Hells); Treasure: Implements
Skills Athletics +7, Nature +5, Perception +7
Senses Passive Perception 17
Languages Druidic, Elvish, Sylvan
CR 7 (XP 2,900; PB +3)
Actions
Multiattack. The centaur makes two attacks, using Forest Staff or Sun Ray in
any combination.
Forest Staff. Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) Bludgeoning
damage plus 14 (4d6) Poison damage.
Sun Ray. Ranged Attack Roll: +7, range 90 ft.
Hit: 14 (3d6 + 4) Radiant damage,
and the target has the Blinded condition until the start of the centaur’s
next turn.
Spellcasting. The centaur casts one of the following spells, using Wisdom as
the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15):
At Will:
Druidcraft,
Speak with Animals
Bonus Actions
Entangling Trail (Recharge 5–6). The centaur moves up to its Speed without
provoking Opportunity Attacks. Each creature within 5 feet of the centaur as it
moves is targeted once by the following effect.
Strength Saving Throw: DC 15.
Failure: 11 (2d6 + 4) Bludgeoning damage, and the target has the Restrained
condition until the end of its next turn.
CENTAUR TROOPER
AC 16 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 45 (6d10 + 12)
Speed 50 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	18 	+4 	+4
DEX 	14 	+2 	+2
CON 	14 	+2 	+2
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	9 	−1 	−1
WIS 	13 	+1 	+1
CHA 	11 	+0 	+0
Skills Athletics +6, Perception +3
Gear Breastplate, Longbow, Pike
Senses Passive Perception 13
Languages Elvish, Sylvan
CR 2 (XP 450; PB +2)
Actions
Multiattack. The centaur makes two attacks, using Pike or Longbow in
any combination.
Pike. Melee Attack Roll: +6, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 9 (1d10 + 4) Piercing damage.
Longbow. Ranged Attack Roll: +4, range 150/600 ft.
Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2)
Piercing damage.
Bonus Actions
Trampling Charge (Recharge 5–6). The centaur moves up to its Speed without
provoking Opportunity Attacks and can move through the spaces of Medium or
smaller creatures. Each creature whose space the centaur enters is targeted
once by the following effect.
Strength Saving Throw: DC 14.
Failure: 7 (1d6 + 4)
Bludgeoning damage, and the target has the Prone condition.
Large Fey, Neutral Good
ARTIST: MICHAEL BROUSSARD

-- 4 of 30 --

Also known as kytons, chain devils consider themselves morbid artisans
who use deception, menace, and vicious metal to coerce prisoners into
betraying themselves. Many serve powerful devils, wrenching secrets from
imprisoned souls using deadly, animate chains. Left to their own devices,
chain devils encourage ruthless individuals to pursue forbidden magic,
leading their pupils down paths to the Nine Hells.
Along with psychological threats and physical harm, a chain devil uses its
unnerving gaze to make its victims perceive their worst fear rather than the
monster. Roll on or choose a result from the Chain Devil Masks table to
inspire a chain devil’s fearful appearance.
Chain Devil Masks
1d4 	To a Viewer, the Chain Devil Looks Like...
1 	The corpse of a loved one.
2 	A disapproving deity.
3 	A harsh instructor or superior.
4 	The viewer at their lowest point in life.
Chasme
CHAIN DEVIL
AC 15 	Initiative +5 (15)
HP 85 (10d8 + 40)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	18 	+4 	+4
DEX 	15 	+2 	+2
CON 	18 	+4 	+7
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	11 	+0 	+0
WIS 	12 	+1 	+4
CHA 	14 	+2 	+2
Resistances Bludgeoning, Cold, Piercing, Slashing
Immunities Fire, Poison; Poisoned
Senses Darkvision 120 ft. (unimpeded by magical Darkness); Passive
Perception 11
Languages Infernal; telepathy 120 ft.
CR 8 (XP 3,900; PB +3)
Traits
Diabolical Restoration. If the devil dies outside the Nine Hells, its body
disappears in sulfurous smoke, and it gains a new body instantly, reviving with
all its Hit Points somewhere in the Nine Hells.
Magic Resistance. The devil has Advantage on saving throws against spells
and other magical effects.
Actions
Multiattack. The devil makes two Chain attacks and uses Conjure
Infernal Chain.
Chain. Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) Slashing damage. If
the target is a Large or smaller creature, it has the Grappled condition (escape
DC 14) from one of two chains, and it has the Restrained condition until the
grapple ends.
Conjure Infernal Chain. The devil conjures a fiery chain to bind a creature.
Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 15, one creature the devil can see within 60 feet.
Failure: 9 (2d4 + 4) Fire damage, and the target has the Restrained condition
until the end of the devil’s next turn, at which point the chain disappears. If the
target is Large or smaller, the devil moves the target up to 30 feet straight
toward itself.
Success: The chain disappears.
Reactions
Unnerving Gaze. Trigger: A creature the devil can see starts its turn within 30
feet of the devil and can see the devil.
Response—Wisdom Saving Throw: DC
15, the triggering creature.
Failure: The target has the Frightened condition
until the end of its turn.
Success: The target is immune to this devil’s
Unnerving Gaze for 24 hours.
Medium Fiend (Devil), Lawful Evil

-- 5 of 30 --

Demon of Betrayal and Sycophancy
Habitat: Planar (Abyss); Treasure: Relics
Flying forth from the Abyss, chasmes resemble horse-size flies. They incapacitate foes by producing a mind-numbing droning, then use their proboscises to
drain victims of life. In the Abyss, most chasmes obsequiously serve more powerful demons and search for captives to press into demonic hordes.
Chimera
Multiheaded Ravager
Habitat: Grassland, Hill, Mountain; Treasure: Any
CHASME
AC 15 	Initiative +5 (15)
HP 78 (12d10 + 12)
Speed 20 ft., Fly 60 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	15 	+2 	+2
DEX 	15 	+2 	+5
CON 	12 	+1 	+1
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	11 	+0 	+0
WIS 	14 	+2 	+5
CHA 	10 	+0 	+0
Skills Perception +5
Resistances Cold, Fire, Lightning
Immunities Poison; Poisoned
Senses Blindsight 10 ft., Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 15
Languages Abyssal; telepathy 120 ft.
CR 6 (XP 2,300; PB +3)
Traits
Demonic Restoration. If the chasme dies outside the Abyss, its body dissolves
into ichor, and it gains a new body instantly, reviving with all its Hit Points
somewhere in the Abyss.
Magic Resistance. The chasme has Advantage on saving throws against
spells and other magical effects.
Spider Climb. The chasme can climb difficult surfaces, including along ceilings,
without needing to make an ability check.
Actions
Proboscis. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 16 (4d6 + 2) Piercing damage
plus 21 (6d6) Necrotic damage. If the target is a creature, its Hit Point
maximum decreases by an amount equal to the Necrotic damage taken.
Bonus Actions
Drone. Constitution Saving Throw: DC 12, each creature in a 30-foot Emanation
originating from the chasme (demons automatically succeed on this save).
Failure: The target has the Unconscious condition and repeats the save at the
end of each of its turns. The target succeeds automatically after 10 minutes or
if it takes damage or a creature within 5 feet of it takes an action to empty a
flask of Holy Water on it.
Success: The target is immune to this chasme’s
Drone for 24 hours.
Large Fiend (Demon), Chaotic Evil
ARTIST: RICHARD LUONG
ARTIST: IZZY

-- 6 of 30 --

Violent and unpredictable, chimeras combine the deadliest traits of lions, rams, and red dragons. With their fearsome claws, crushing horns, and fiery
breath, chimeras are tempests of ferocity, driven by their three heads’ conflicting instincts. Their heads agree on little but their desires to feed and to drive
competitors from the rugged territories where these monsters make their lairs. When they spot prey, chimeras typically strafe foes with their fire breath
before landing to attack with their fangs, horns, and claws.
Owing to their draconic instincts, chimeras are greedy creatures that hoard treasures within cavernous lairs. They’re undiscerning about what they collect,
gathering shiny objects alongside trophies and bones from their recent kills. Brave souls seeking to distract or temporarily appease a chimera can do so by
offering it treasure and food.
Chuul
Chitinous Servant of Primeval Powers
Habitat: Coastal, Swamp, Underdark; Treasure: Relics
CHIMERA
AC 14 	Initiative +0 (10)
HP 114 (12d10 + 48)
Speed 30 ft., Fly 60 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	19 	+4 	+4
DEX 	11 	+0 	+0
CON 	19 	+4 	+4
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	3 	−4 	−4
WIS 	14 	+2 	+2
CHA 	10 	+0 	+0
Skills Perception +8
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 18
Languages Understands Draconic but can’t speak
CR 6 (XP 2,300; PB +3)
Actions
Multiattack. The chimera makes one Ram attack, one Bite attack, and
one Claw attack. It can replace the Claw attack with a use of Fire Breath
if available.
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) Piercing damage, or 18
(4d6 + 4) Piercing damage if the chimera had Advantage on the attack roll.
Claw. Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) Slashing damage.
Ram. Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 10 (1d12 + 4) Bludgeoning damage.
If the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it has the Prone condition.
Fire Breath (Recharge 5–6). Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 15, each creature in a
15-foot Cone.
Failure: 31 (7d8) Fire damage.
Success: Half damage.
Large Monstrosity, Chaotic Evil
ARTIST: BEN WOOTTEN

-- 7 of 30 --

Chuuls originated in forgotten ages when aboleths and stranger beings ruled alien empires beneath the waves. The aboleths transformed numerous deep-
sea predators into servants that could venture beyond the seas to claim more magic and creatures to exploit. Chuuls are the most enduring of these bizarre
servants.
Many chuuls serve aboleth overlords, carrying out their whims amid lightless seas and primeval swamps. Other chuuls obey new aberrant masters, such as
beholders, grells, or mind flayers. Some chuuls follow their own drives, endlessly collecting ancient magic treasures or interpreting age-old orders to bizarre
ends. Regardless of their agendas, chuuls snare creatures in their massive pincers before rendering foes helpless with their paralytic tentacles.
Chuuls don’t age and can lie dormant in hidden places for millennia before threats, ancient orders, or strange compulsions awaken them.
Clay Golem
CHUUL
AC 16 	Initiative +0 (10)
HP 76 (9d10 + 27)
Speed 30 ft., Swim 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	19 	+4 	+4
DEX 	10 	+0 	+0
CON 	16 	+3 	+3
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	5 	−3 	−3
WIS 	11 	+0 	+0
CHA 	5 	−3 	−3
Skills Perception +4
Immunities Poison; Poisoned
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 14
Languages Understands Deep Speech but can’t speak
CR 4 (XP 1,100; PB +2)
Traits
Amphibious. The chuul can breathe air and water.
Sense Magic. The chuul senses magic within 120 feet of itself. This trait
otherwise works like the
Detect Magic spell but isn’t itself magical.
Actions
Multiattack. The chuul makes two Pincer attacks and uses
Paralyzing Tentacles.
Pincer. Melee Attack Roll: +6, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 9 (1d10 + 4) Bludgeoning
damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it has the Grappled
condition (escape DC 14) from one of two pincers.
Paralyzing Tentacles. Constitution Saving Throw: DC 13, one creature
Grappled by the chuul.
Failure: The target has the Poisoned condition and
repeats the save at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a
success. After 1 minute, it succeeds automatically. While Poisoned, the target
has the Paralyzed condition.
Large Aberration, Chaotic Evil

-- 8 of 30 --

Guardian of Home and Heart
Habitat: Urban; Treasure: Relics
Clay golems are magical defenders made from earth and clay to protect places or communities. The materials used in creating clay golems originate from
near the location the golems protect and often have special significance to their creators, such as clay from a holy site or bricks from a magical ruin. While
some clay golems are masterfully sculpted to resemble living beings, others have only vaguely humanlike forms.
These golems obey their creators’ orders and protect what their makers value most. Some still
follow these orders long after their creators’ deaths. Roll on or choose a result from the Clay
Golem Orders table to inspire the commands a clay golem follows.
Clay Golem Orders
1d4 	The Clay Golem Follows Orders To...
1 	Block the path of anyone who enters a site with a weapon drawn.
2 Defend any member of their creator’s family or community who is threatened in its
sight.
3 	Prevent any Fiend from crossing a bridge.
4 	Remove any who enter its creator’s workshop.
Cloaker
Haunter in the Dark
Habitat: Underdark; Treasure: Implements
ARTIST: HINCHEL OR
CLAY GOLEM
AC 14 	Initiative +3 (13)
HP 123 (13d10 + 52)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	20 	+5 	+5
DEX 	9 	−1 	−1
CON 	18 	+4 	+4
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	3 	−4 	−4
WIS 	8 	−1 	−1
CHA 	1 	−5 	−5
Resistances Bludgeoning, Piercing, Slashing
Immunities Acid, Poison, Psychic; Charmed, Exhaustion, Frightened, Paralyzed,
Petrified, Poisoned
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 9
Languages Common plus one other language
CR 9 (XP 5,000; PB +4)
Traits
Acid Absorption. Whenever the golem is subjected to Acid damage, it takes
no damage and instead regains a number of Hit Points equal to the Acid
damage dealt.
Berserk. Whenever the golem starts its turn Bloodied, roll 1d6. On a 6, the
golem goes berserk. On each of its turns while berserk, the golem attacks the
nearest creature it can see. If no creature is near enough to move to and
attack, the golem attacks an object. Once the golem goes berserk, it continues
to be berserk until it is destroyed or it is no longer Bloodied.
Immutable Form. The golem can’t shape-shift.
Magic Resistance. The golem has Advantage on saving throws against spells
and other magical effects.
Actions
Multiattack. The golem makes two Slam attacks, or it makes three Slam
attacks if it used Hasten this turn.
Slam. Melee Attack Roll: +9, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 10 (1d10 + 5) Bludgeoning damage
plus 6 (1d12) Acid damage, and the target’s Hit Point maximum decreases by
an amount equal to the Acid damage taken.
Bonus Actions
Hasten (Recharge 5–6). The golem takes the Dash and Disengage actions.
Large Construct, Unaligned

-- 9 of 30 --

Cloakers are mysterious Underdark predators, named by adventurers for their resemblance to hanging cloaks when they cling to walls. What cloakers call
themselves is unknown, if they refer to themselves at all. Though they’re undeniably intelligent, their behavior is often inscrutable.
Cloakers sometimes gather in Underdark enclaves, but they rarely build settlements or form social structures. Most operate as solitary predators, lurking in
dismal subterranean reaches or abandoned dungeons—sometimes for months at a time—as they wait for prey to pass. They use their mottled hides to
blend in with their surroundings. When unsuspecting prey nears, cloakers unfurl and attempt to latch on and then smother their victims in their powerful
wings.
Cloakers delight in frightening foes. In addition to their methods of ambush, cloakers can create illusory duplicates of themselves and emit surreal moans
that non-cloakers find terrifying in unexplainable, primal ways. Cloakers might antagonize explorers lost in the Underdark for days, terrorizing and scattering
them before attacking. They rarely converse with other beings, except to whisper eerie riddles to those they’re about to consume.
Cloud Giant
ARTIST: ALEX STONE
CLOAKER
AC 14 	Initiative +5 (15)
HP 91 (14d10 + 14)
Speed 10 ft., Fly 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	17 	+3 	+3
DEX 	15 	+2 	+2
CON 	12 	+1 	+1
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	13 	+1 	+1
WIS 	14 	+2 	+2
CHA 	7 	−2 	−2
Skills Stealth +5
Immunities Frightened
Senses Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 12
Languages Deep Speech, Undercommon
CR 8 (XP 3,900; PB +3)
Traits
Light Sensitivity. While in Bright Light, the cloaker has Disadvantage on
attack rolls.
Actions
Multiattack. The cloaker makes one Attach attack and two Tail attacks.
Attach. Melee Attack Roll: +6, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 13 (3d6 + 3) Piercing damage. If
the target is a Large or smaller creature, the cloaker attaches to it. While the
cloaker is attached, the target has the Blinded condition, and the cloaker can’t
make Attach attacks against other targets. In addition, the cloaker halves
the damage it takes (round down), and the target takes the same amount
of damage.
The cloaker can detach itself by spending 5 feet of movement. The target or a
creature within 5 feet of it can take an action to try to detach the cloaker, doing
so by succeeding on a DC 14 Strength (Athletics) check.
Tail. Melee Attack Roll: +6, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 8 (1d10 + 3) Slashing damage.
Bonus Actions
Moan. Wisdom Saving Throw: DC 13, each creature in a 60-foot Emanation
originating from the cloaker.
Failure: The target has the Frightened condition
until the end of the cloaker’s next turn.
Success: The target is immune to this
cloaker’s Moan for the next 24 hours.
Phantasms (Recharge after a Short or Long Rest). The cloaker casts the
Mirror
Image spell, requiring no spell components and using Wisdom as the
spellcasting ability. The spell ends early if the cloaker starts or ends its turn in
Bright Light.
Large Aberration, Chaotic Neutral

-- 10 of 30 --

Giant of the Loftiest Heights
Habitat: Mountain; Treasure: Arcana
Cloud giants use the power of the skies to observe and subtly influence the world. These giants resemble humans with hair ranging from silver to blue and
with skin in cloudlike shades from stark white to twilight hues. Curved canines grow in their upper jaws, extending past their lower lips. In battle, they attack
with weapons wreathed in storm clouds and throw roaring thunderheads.
Most cloud giants inhabit citadels crowning tremendous mountains or magical palaces that drift amid the clouds. Many of these giants believe they
possess similarly lofty status or purpose. Some view themselves as godlike beings who can manipulate and steal from terrestrial beings with impunity.
Others claim their long lives and place among the clouds grant them unique perspectives, so they chronicle what they witness in the world below without
interfering. In either case, cloud giants often possess fabulous magical treasures, either claimed from across the world or created by (and gigantically sized
for) themselves.
ARTIST: TARAS SUSAK
CLOUD GIANT
AC 14 	Initiative +4 (14)
HP 200 (16d12 + 96)
Speed 40 ft., Fly 20 ft. (hover)
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	27 	+8 	+8
DEX 	10 	+0 	+0
CON 	22 	+6 	+10
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	12 	+1 	+1
WIS 	16 	+3 	+7
CHA 	16 	+3 	+3
Skills Insight +7, Perception +11
Senses Passive Perception 21
Languages Common, Giant
CR 9 (XP 5,000; PB +4)
Actions
Multiattack. The giant makes two attacks, using Thunderous Mace or
Thundercloud in any combination. It can replace one attack with a use of
Spellcasting to cast
Fog Cloud.
Thunderous Mace. Melee Attack Roll: +12, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 21 (3d8 + 8)
Bludgeoning damage plus 7 (2d6) Thunder damage.
Thundercloud. Ranged Attack Roll: +12, range 240 ft.
Hit: 18 (3d6 + 8) Thunder
damage, and the target has the Incapacitated condition until the end of its
next turn.
Spellcasting. The giant casts one of the following spells, requiring no Material
components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15):
At Will:
Detect Magic,
Fog Cloud,
Light
1/Day Each:
Control Weather,
Gaseous Form,
Telekinesis
Bonus Actions
Misty Step. The giant casts the
Misty Step spell, using the same spellcasting
ability as Spellcasting.
Huge Giant, Neutral

-- 11 of 30 --

Cockatrices
Accursed Avians with the Power to Petrify
Habitat: Grassland; Treasure: None
Cockatrices combine the features of irate roosters and starving reptiles. They petrify those they bite, their slightest peck turning their prey to stone.
Cockatrice
Cockatrices often try to claim eye-catching structures—such as ruins and secluded farms—as roosts.
Cockatrice Regent
Bolder than their smaller cousins, cockatrice regents brim with unstable magical energy they use to restrain distant foes.
COCKATRICE
AC 11 	Initiative +1 (11)
HP 22 (5d6 + 5)
Speed 20 ft., Fly 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	6 	−2 	−2
DEX 	12 	+1 	+1
CON 	12 	+1 	+1
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	2 	−4 	−4
WIS 	13 	+1 	+1
CHA 	5 	−3 	−3
Immunities Petrified
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 11
Languages None
CR 1/2 (XP 100; PB +2)
Actions
Petrifying Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +3, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 3 (1d4 + 1) Piercing
damage. If the target is a creature, it is subjected to the following effect.
Constitution Saving Throw: DC 11.
First Failure: The target has the
Restrained condition. The target repeats the save at the end of its next turn if
it is still Restrained, ending the effect on itself on a success.
Second Failure:
The target has the Petrified condition, instead of the Restrained condition,
for 24 hours.
Small Monstrosity, Unaligned
ARTIST: DAREN BADER
COCKATRICE REGENT
AC 15 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 136 (16d10 + 48)
Speed 30 ft., Fly 60 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	19 	+4 	+4
DEX 	14 	+2 	+2
CON 	16 	+3 	+3
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	3 	−4 	−4
WIS 	16 	+3 	+6
CHA 	5 	−3 	−3
Immunities Petrified
Senses Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 13
Languages None
CR 8 (XP 3,900; PB +3)
Traits
Flyby. The cockatrice doesn’t provoke an Opportunity Attack when it flies out
of an enemy’s reach.
Large Monstrosity, Unaligned

-- 12 of 30 --

Colossus
Titanic Vessel of Divine Might
Habitat: Any; Treasure: Relics
Colossi are massive Constructs created by the devout to reflect the nature of a deity, which could be benevolent or wicked. Colossi thrum with incredible
magic and work divine will on the land.
Droves of faithful artisans craft a colossus in a shape to honor their deity,
then call on that god to infuse the statue with life. This arduous process
might take decades and involve hundreds of workers. If the god favors the
creation, the mighty crystal at the construct’s heart pulses with divine power,
and the colossus rises to protect the faithful or enact the god’s will.
Most colossi were created in ages past and now lie dormant in secluded
wilderness, awakening only when disturbed or called on to serve once more.
Actions
Multiattack. The cockatrice makes one Petrifying Bite attack and two
Talons attacks.
Petrifying Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) Piercing
damage. If the target is a creature, it is subjected to the following effect.
Constitution Saving Throw: DC 14.
First Failure: The target has the Restrained
condition and repeats the save at the end of its next turn if it is still Restrained,
ending the effect on itself on a success.
Second Failure: The target has the
Petrified condition instead of the Restrained condition.
Talons. Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 18 (4d6 + 4) Slashing damage.
Reactions
Magical Backlash. Trigger: A creature within 120 feet of the cockatrice deals
damage to it.
Response—Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 14, the triggering
creature.
Failure: 13 (3d6 + 3) Force damage.
ARTIST: MAXIME MINARD
COLOSSUS
AC 23 	Initiative +16 (26)
HP 553 (27d20 + 270)
Speed 60 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	30 	+10 	+10
DEX 	11 	+0 	+8
CON 	30 	+10 	+10
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	3 	−4 	−4
WIS 	11 	+0 	+8
CHA 	8 	−1 	−1
Resistances Necrotic, Radiant
Immunities Poison, Psychic; Charmed, Exhaustion, Frightened, Paralyzed,
Petrified, Poisoned, Stunned, Unconscious
Senses Truesight 300 ft.; Passive Perception 10
Languages Understands Celestial and Common but can’t speak
CR 25 (XP 75,000; PB +8)
Traits
Immutable Form. The colossus can’t shape-shift.
Legendary Resistance (4/Day). If the colossus fails a saving throw, it can
choose to succeed instead.
Magic Resistance. The colossus has Advantage on saving throws against
spells and other magical effects.
Siege Monster. The colossus deals double damage to objects
and structures.
Actions
Multiattack. The colossus makes three attacks, using Slam or Radiant Ray in
any combination.
Slam. Melee Attack Roll: +18, reach 20 ft.
Hit: 32 (4d10 + 10) Bludgeoning
damage, and the colossus pushes the target up to 20 feet straight away
from itself.
Gargantuan Construct (Titan), Unaligned

-- 13 of 30 --

Commoner
Everyday Folk
Habitat: Any; Treasure: Individual
Radiant Ray. Ranged Attack Roll: +18, range 300 ft.
Hit: 22 (4d10)
Radiant damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it has the
Prone condition.
Divine Beam (Recharge 5–6). Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 26, each creature
in a 300-foot-long, 10-foot-wide Line.
Failure: 65 (10d12) Radiant damage.
Success: Half damage.
Failure or Success: A creature reduced to 0 Hit
Points by this beam disintegrates into dust, leaving behind any magic items
it was wearing or carrying.
Legendary Actions
Legendary Action Uses: 3. Immediately after another creature’s turn, the
colossus can expend a use to take one of the following actions. The
colossus regains all expended uses at the start of each of its turns.
Smite. The colossus makes one Radiant Ray attack.
Stomp. The colossus moves up to half its Speed without provoking
Opportunity Attacks, and it can make one Slam attack at any point during
that move.
ARTIST: ZUZANNA WUZYK

-- 14 of 30 --

Commoners constitute the majority of people who don’t pursue magical talents, extraordinary training, or a life of adventure. Some are generous, helpful
sorts, while others are more cautious in sharing what they have. Use the following list of jobs and roles to introduce commoners in your adventures:
Artist
Baker
Bartender
Blacksmith
Butcher
Captive
Carpenter
Castaway
Cobbler
Cook
Dyer
Farmer
Fisher
Fletcher
Flimflam artist
Gossip
Hermit
Hooligan
Hunter
Innkeeper
Laborer
Lamplighter
Mason
Merchant
Miner
Mud lark
Patient
Pilgrim
Resurrectionist
Rioter
Scribe
Servant
Shepherd
Student
Tailor
Tanner
Town crier
Weaver
Youngster
COMMONERS OF VARIED SPECIES AND PROFESSIONS GO ABOUT THEIR DAY
COMMONER
AC 10 	Initiative +0 (10)
HP 4 (1d8)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	10 	+0 	+0
DEX 	10 	+0 	+0
CON 	10 	+0 	+0
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	10 	+0 	+0
WIS 	10 	+0 	+0
CHA 	10 	+0 	+0
Gear Club
Senses Passive Perception 10
Languages Common
CR 0 (XP 10; PB +2)
Traits
Training. The commoner has proficiency in one skill of the DM’s choice and
has Advantage whenever it makes an ability check using that skill.
Actions
Club. Melee Attack Roll: +2, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 2 (1d4) Bludgeoning damage.
Medium or Small Humanoid, Neutral

-- 15 of 30 --

Copper Dragons
Dragons of Curiosity and Community
Habitat: Hill; Treasure: Arcana
Relentlessly friendly and curious, most copper dragons view the world as a place of endless wonder and possibility. These gregarious dragons are fonts of
patience, hospitality, and humor, and they seek to improve the lives—or, at least, the mood—of those they interact with. If forced to fight to defend
themselves or their friends, these dragons favor using their slowing breath and physical attacks to subdue antagonists. Only in cases of extreme peril or
emotion do they use their deadly acid breath.
Copper dragons typically live in caverns amid picturesque hills and rock formations—particularly those that are prominent landmarks. These dragons
collect gifts, though they have little interest in treasure without meaning, no matter how valuable it is. To them, thoughtfully given presents and the feelings
or memories they symbolize are more important than masterpieces or magical relics.
Copper Dragon Wyrmling
Copper dragon wyrmlings venture into the world seeking to make friends and discover wonders. They sometimes get into trouble, but those who help them
can become their friends for life.
COPPER DRAGON WYRMLING
AC 16 	Initiative +3 (13)
HP 22 (4d8 + 4)
Speed 30 ft., Climb 30 ft., Fly 60 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	15 	+2 	+2
DEX 	12 	+1 	+3
CON 	13 	+1 	+1
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	14 	+2 	+2
WIS 	11 	+0 	+2
CHA 	13 	+1 	+1
Skills Perception +4, Stealth +3
Immunities Acid
Senses Blindsight 10 ft., Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 14
Languages Draconic
CR 1 (XP 200; PB +2)
Actions
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 7 (1d10 + 2) Slashing damage.
Acid Breath (Recharge 5–6).
Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 11, each creature
in a 20-foot-long, 5-foot-wide Line.
Failure: 18 (4d8) Acid damage.
Success:
Half damage.
Slowing Breath. Constitution Saving Throw: DC 11, each creature in a 15-foot
Cone.
Failure: The target can’t take Reactions; its Speed is halved; and it can
take either an action or a Bonus Action on its turn, not both. This effect lasts
until the end of its next turn.
Medium Dragon (Metallic), Chaotic Good
ARTIST: SVETLIN VELINOV

-- 16 of 30 --

Young Copper Dragon
Young copper dragons forge strong connections with a community or group of friends while flitting from one artistic fixation to the next.
Copper Dragon Lairs
Copper dragons typically inhabit multichamber caves and renovated ruins.
The region containing an adult or ancient copper dragon’s lair is changed by its presence, creating the following effects:
Chatty Critters. Tiny Beasts magically gain the ability to speak and understand Draconic while within 6 miles of the lair.
Giggle Fits. Whenever a creature other than the dragon and its allies is within 1 mile of the lair and rolls a 1 on a D20 Test, it must succeed on a DC 15
Wisdom saving throw or have the Incapacitated condition until the end of its next turn, as it is wracked with laughter.
If the dragon dies or moves its lair elsewhere, these effects end immediately.
Adult Copper Dragon
COPPER DRAGON WYRMLING
YOUNG COPPER DRAGON
AC 17 	Initiative +4 (14)
HP 119 (14d10 + 42)
Speed 40 ft., Climb 40 ft., Fly 80 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	19 	+4 	+4
DEX 	12 	+1 	+4
CON 	17 	+3 	+3
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	16 	+3 	+3
WIS 	13 	+1 	+4
CHA 	15 	+2 	+2
Skills Deception +5, Perception +7, Stealth +4
Immunities Acid
Senses Blindsight 30 ft., Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 17
Languages Common, Draconic
CR 7 (XP 2,900; PB +3)
Actions
Multiattack. The dragon makes three Rend attacks. It can replace one attack
with a use of Slowing Breath.
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 15 (2d10 + 4) Slashing damage.
Acid Breath (Recharge 5–6). Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 14, each creature
in a 40-foot-long, 5-foot-wide Line.
Failure: 40 (9d8) Acid damage.
Success:
Half damage.
Slowing Breath. Constitution Saving Throw: DC 14, each creature in a 30-foot
Cone.
Failure: The target can’t take Reactions; its Speed is halved; and it can
take either an action or a Bonus Action on its turn, not both. This effect lasts
until the end of its next turn.
Large Dragon (Metallic), Chaotic Good
ARTIST: SVETLIN VELINOV

-- 17 of 30 --

Adult copper dragons use their influence to better the world. With broad circles of friends, adult copper dragons delight in introducing people to one another
and helping people find places where they can flourish. When disaster strikes, these dragons draw on their family of contacts to offer support, right wrongs,
and rebuild stronger than before.
SURROUNDED BY GUARDIANS OF THE FOREST, AN ADULT COPPER
DRAGON BEQUEATHS A MAGIC SWORD TO A WORTHY HERO
ADULT COPPER DRAGON
AC 18 	Initiative +11 (21)
HP 184 (16d12 + 80)
Speed 40 ft., Climb 40 ft., Fly 80 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	23 	+6 	+6
DEX 	12 	+1 	+6
CON 	21 	+5 	+5
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	18 	+4 	+4
WIS 	15 	+2 	+7
CHA 	18 	+4 	+4
Skills Deception +9, Perception +12, Stealth +6
Immunities Acid
Senses Blindsight 60 ft., Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 22
Languages Common, Draconic
CR 14 (XP 11,500, or 13,000 in lair; PB +5)
Traits
Legendary Resistance (3/Day, or 4/Day in Lair). If the dragon fails a saving
throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
Actions
Multiattack. The dragon makes three Rend attacks. It can replace one attack
with a use of (A) Slowing Breath or (B) Spellcasting to cast
Mind Spike (level
4 version).
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +11, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 17 (2d10 + 6) Slashing damage
plus 4 (1d8) Acid damage.
Acid Breath (Recharge 5–6).
Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 18, each creature in
an 60-foot-long, 5-foot-wide Line.
Failure: 54 (12d8) Acid damage.
Success:
Half damage.
Slowing Breath. Constitution Saving Throw: DC 18, each creature in a 60-foot
Cone.
Failure: The target can’t take Reactions; its Speed is halved; and it can
take either an action or a Bonus Action on its turn, not both. This effect lasts
until the end of its next turn.
Spellcasting. The dragon casts one of the following spells, requiring no
Material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell
save DC 17):
At Will:
Detect Magic,
Mind Spike (level 4 version),
Minor Illusion,
Shapechange
(Beast or Humanoid form only, no Temporary Hit Points gained from the spell,
and no Concentration or Temporary Hit Points required to maintain the spell)
1/Day Each:
Greater Restoration,
Major Image
Legendary Actions
Legendary Action Uses: 3 (4 in Lair). Immediately after another creature’s turn,
the dragon can expend a use to take one of the following actions. The dragon
regains all expended uses at the start of each of its turns.
Giggling Magic. Charisma Saving Throw: DC 17, one creature the dragon can
see within 90 feet.
Failure: 24 (7d6) Psychic damage. Until the end of its next
turn, the target rolls 1d6 whenever it makes an ability check or attack roll and
subtracts the number rolled from the D20 Test.
Failure or Success: The dragon
can’t take this action again until the start of its next turn.
Mind Jolt. The dragon uses Spellcasting to cast
Mind Spike (level 4 version).
The dragon can’t take this action again until the start of its next turn.
Pounce. The dragon moves up to half its Speed, and it makes one Rend attack.
Huge Dragon (Metallic), Chaotic Good

-- 18 of 30 --

Ancient Copper Dragon
Ancient copper dragons use warmth and reliability to effect change over time. They open their cozy lairs to their friends as havens of learning and laughter
for the young and those in need. These dragons watch for and oppose future threats while fostering sanctuaries of simple goodness.
AN ANCIENT COPPER DRAGON WATCHES OVER ITS ALLIES’ BOISTEROUS YOUNG
ARTIST: SVETLIN VELINOV
ANCIENT COPPER DRAGON
AC 21 	Initiative +15 (25)
HP 367 (21d20 + 147)
Speed 40 ft., Climb 40 ft., Fly 80 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	27 	+8 	+8
DEX 	12 	+1 	+8
CON 	25 	+7 	+7
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	20 	+5 	+5
WIS 	17 	+3 	+10
CHA 	22 	+6 	+6
Skills Deception +13, Perception +17, Stealth +8
Immunities Acid
Senses Blindsight 60 ft., Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 27
Languages Common, Draconic
CR 21 (XP 33,000, or 41,000 in lair; PB +7)
Traits
Legendary Resistance (4/Day, or 5/Day in Lair). If the dragon fails a saving
throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
Actions
Multiattack. The dragon makes three Rend attacks. It can replace one attack
with a use of (A) Slowing Breath or (B) Spellcasting to cast
Mind Spike (level
5 version).
Gargantuan Dragon (Metallic), Chaotic Good

-- 19 of 30 --

Couatl
Guardian Manifestation of the Divine
Habitat: Desert, Forest, Grassland, Urban; Treasure: Relics
Embodiments of prophecy and protectors of divine secrets, couatls ensure fate unfolds as it should. They resemble serpents with rainbow wings, and each
is a manifestation of a divine edict, a truth or fate that a righteous god decrees must hold true for all time. Most couatls appear in places of ancient power,
where they guard hidden magic or ensure foretold acts do or don’t come to pass. Rarely, couatls watch over communities or travel lands in disguise,
interpreting omens or manipulating factors to set fate on its proper course.
Motivated by eternal mandates, couatls sometimes behave in inscrutable or antagonistic ways. They are inflexible and uncompromising, as their
existences are fundamentally tied to their divine directives, but they harm other creatures only when absolutely necessary to achieve divine goals.
Each couatl goes through a period of renewal at the end of an age. In a couatl’s life cycle, an age might correspond to a celestial calendar or some divine
chronology. Near the age’s end, the couatl lays a wondrous, rainbow-hued egg. When the age ends, the couatl dies. For a period—perhaps a single day,
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +15, reach 15 ft.
Hit: 19 (2d10 + 8) Slashing damage
plus 9 (2d8) Acid damage.
Acid Breath (Recharge 5–6).
Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 22, each creature in
an 90-foot-long, 10-foot-wide Line.
Failure: 63 (14d8) Acid damage.
Success:
Half damage.
Slowing Breath. Constitution Saving Throw: DC 22, each creature in a 90-foot
Cone.
Failure: The target can’t take Reactions; its Speed is halved; and it can
take either an action or a Bonus Action on its turn, not both. This effect lasts
until the end of its next turn.
Spellcasting. The dragon casts one of the following spells, requiring no
Material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell
save DC 21):
At Will:
Detect Magic,
Mind Spike (level 5 version),
Minor Illusion,
Shapechange
(Beast or Humanoid form only, no Temporary Hit Points gained from the spell,
and no Concentration or Temporary Hit Points required to maintain the spell)
1/Day Each:
Greater Restoration,
Major Image,
Project Image
Legendary Actions
Legendary Action Uses: 3 (4 in Lair). Immediately after another creature’s turn,
the dragon can expend a use to take one of the following actions. The dragon
regains all expended uses at the start of each of its turns.
Giggling Magic. Charisma Saving Throw: DC 21, one creature the dragon can
see within 120 feet.
Failure: 31 (9d6) Psychic damage. Until the end of its next
turn, the target rolls 1d8 whenever it makes an ability check or attack roll and
subtracts the number rolled from the D20 Test.
Failure or Success: The dragon
can’t take this action again until the start of its next turn.
Mind Jolt. The dragon uses Spellcasting to cast
Mind Spike (level 5 version).
The dragon can’t take this action again until the start of its next turn.
Pounce. The dragon moves up to half its Speed, and it makes one Rend attack.
ARTIST: VIKTOR TITOV

-- 20 of 30 --

perhaps until an annual solar event—the couatl’s work is unattended. Once this time passes, the same couatl that laid the egg hatches from it, fully grown
and renewed to serve for another age.
Crawling Claws
Severed Appendages with Malicious Will
Habitat: Any; Treasure: None
Crawling claws are severed hands that move and act of their own murderous
accord. These deathless appendages can spring to life from the severed limbs of
killers and villains, and sinister magic-users might animate crawling claws as
foul servants. Crawling claws appear in a variety of forms, from decaying human
hands to the fresh appendages of animals or monsters.
Crawling Claw
Lone crawling claws can continue killing sprees they perpetrated in life. Some
recklessly attack the living, while others pursue specific victims. In rare cases, a
crawling claw wreaks mayhem while the rest of its body still lives, with the
original creature potentially unaware of its severed hand’s crimes.
COUATL
AC 19 	Initiative +5 (15)
HP 60 (8d8 + 24)
Speed 30 ft., Fly 90 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	16 	+3 	+3
DEX 	20 	+5 	+5
CON 	17 	+3 	+5
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	18 	+4 	+4
WIS 	20 	+5 	+7
CHA 	18 	+4 	+4
Resistances Bludgeoning, Piercing, Slashing
Immunities Psychic, Radiant
Senses Truesight 120 ft.; Passive Perception 15
Languages All; telepathy 120 ft.
CR 4 (XP 1,100; PB +2)
Traits
Shielded Mind. The couatl’s thoughts can’t be read by any means, and other
creatures can communicate with it telepathically only if it allows them.
Actions
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 11 (1d12 + 5) Piercing damage, and
the target has the Poisoned condition until the end of the couatl’s next turn.
Constrict. Strength Saving Throw: DC 15, one Medium or smaller creature the
couatl can see within 5 feet.
Failure: 8 (1d6 + 5) Bludgeoning damage. The
target has the Grappled condition (escape DC 13), and it has the Restrained
condition until the grapple ends.
Spellcasting. The couatl casts one of the following spells, requiring no spell
components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15):
At Will:
Detect Evil and Good,
Detect Magic,
Detect Thoughts,
Shapechange
(Beast or Humanoid form only, no Temporary Hit Points gained from the spell,
and no Concentration or Temporary Hit Points required to maintain the spell)
1/Day Each:
Create Food and Water,
Dream,
Greater Restoration,
Scrying,
Sleep
Bonus Actions
Divine Aid (2/Day). The couatl casts
Bless,
Lesser Restoration, or
Sanctuary,
requiring no spell components and using the same spellcasting ability
as Spellcasting.
Medium Celestial, Lawful Good
ARTIST: BRIAN VALENZUELA
CRAWLING CLAW
AC 12 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 2 (1d4)
Speed 20 ft., Climb 20 ft.
Tiny Undead, Neutral Evil

-- 21 of 30 --

Swarm of Crawling Claws
Swarms of crawling claws are typically animated by depraved necromancers. Occasionally, these grotesque swarms arise from mass graves or after
tragedies, refusing to let their murderers escape their grasp.
Cultists
Doomsayers and Fanatics
Habitat: Any; Treasure: Individual, Relics
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	13 	+1 	+1
DEX 	14 	+2 	+2
CON 	11 	+0 	+0
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	5 	−3 	−3
WIS 	10 	+0 	+0
CHA 	4 	−3 	−3
Immunities Necrotic, Poison; Charmed, Exhaustion, Frightened,
Incapacitated, Poisoned
Senses Blindsight 30 ft.; Passive Perception 10
Languages Understands Common but can’t speak
CR 0 (XP 10; PB +2)
Actions
Slam. Melee Attack Roll: +3, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 2 Necrotic damage.
Is it possible for any creature, any living being, to be inherently
evil? Such an assertion may itself facilitate the committing of
evil acts. By defining a person as evil, we give them free rein to
behave as they will, absolving them from the wickedness of
their words and the evil of their hands.
—ANSOLM HAAS,
THE ISOLATION OF EVIL
SWARM OF CRAWLING CLAWS
AC 12 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 49 (11d8)
Speed 30 ft., Climb 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	14 	+2 	+2
DEX 	14 	+2 	+2
CON 	11 	+0 	+0
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	5 	−3 	−3
WIS 	10 	+0 	+0
CHA 	4 	−3 	−3
Resistances Bludgeoning, Piercing, Slashing
Immunities Necrotic, Poison; Charmed, Exhaustion, Frightened, Grappled,
Incapacitated, Paralyzed, Petrified, Poisoned, Prone, Restrained, Stunned
Senses Blindsight 30 ft.; Passive Perception 10
Languages Understands Common but can’t speak
CR 3 (XP 700; PB +2)
Traits
Swarm. The swarm can occupy another creature’s space and vice versa, and
the swarm can move through any opening large enough for a Tiny creature. The
swarm can’t regain Hit Points or gain Temporary Hit Points.
Actions
Swarm of Grasping Hands. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 20 (4d8 + 2)
Necrotic damage, or 11 (2d8 + 2) Necrotic damage if the swarm is Bloodied. If
the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it has the Prone condition.
Medium Swarm of Tiny Undead, Neutral Evil
ARTIST: AURORE FOLNY

-- 22 of 30 --

Cultists use magic and extreme measures to spread radical beliefs. Some privately pursue esoteric secrets, while others form shadowy cabals seeking to
bring about terrifying ends. Cultists often follow obscure mystical traditions or obsess over interpretations of ancient prophecies. They might worship
supernatural patrons—deities, otherworldly creatures, manipulative alien minds, or stranger forces. Roll on or choose a result from the Cultist Agendas table
to inspire what a cultist seeks to achieve.
Cultist Agendas
1d6 	The Cultist Strives To...
1 	Bring about the end of a dominant order, an age, or the world.
2 	Burn away the comfortable lies of reality, revealing forgotten or terrible truths.
3 	Expand their faith though mind control or supernatural coercion.
4 	Make global changes, like sinking the land or awakening volcanoes.
5 	Remake life on a mass scale, altering other creatures’ bodies or spiritual beings.
6 	Summon their deity or its herald, weapon, or realm into their world.
Occult Symbols
Cults often identify with symbols that exemplify their beliefs. Such symbols might mark objects important to the cult, as well as the dress and bodies of
cultists themselves. These symbols might be broadly understandable, or they might have meaning only to cultists. Roll twice on or choose results from the
Cult Symbols table to inspire a cult’s icons.
Cult Symbols
1d10 	The Symbol Is... 	Depicted As...
1 	An alchemical sign 	A calendar or map
A DEATH CULTIST AND HIS FOLLOWERS SUMMON ORCUS, DEMON LORD OF UNDEATH

-- 23 of 30 --

1d10 	The Symbol Is... 	Depicted As...
2 	An animal 	A crest or as heraldry
3 	A celestial body 	An elaborate diagram
4 	A deity’s icon 	A metaphorical image
5 	An element 	A mystical being
6 	An eye 	Part of an equation
7 	A geometric shape 	A repeating pattern
8 	A letter or number 	A series of scratches
9 	Part of a monster 	A simple pictogram
10 	A skull 	A weapon or tool
Cult Members
Cults often form hierarchies around a charismatic or domineering leader. While cult members might work independently, they take their orders from
superiors with greater supernatural powers. Any cult might have the following sorts of members.
Cultist
Cultists devote themselves to their faith’s leaders and otherworldly masters. While this zeal grants cultists no magical powers, it gives them remarkable
resolve in the face of threats. Cultists perform much of a cult’s mundane work, which might include evangelism, criminal acts, or serving as sacrifices.
Cultist Fanatic
Cultist fanatics lead small cults or cells within larger cults. They’re privy to more of a cult’s mysteries than lower-ranking cultists are, granting them access
to magical powers from their patrons.
CULTIST
AC 12 	Initiative +1 (11)
HP 9 (2d8)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	11 	+0 	+0
DEX 	12 	+1 	+1
CON 	10 	+0 	+0
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	10 	+0 	+0
WIS 	11 	+0 	+2
CHA 	10 	+0 	+0
Skills Deception +2, Religion +2
Gear Leather Armor, Sickle
Senses Passive Perception 10
Languages Common
CR 1/8 (XP 25; PB +2)
Actions
Ritual Sickle. Melee Attack Roll: +3, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 3 (1d4 + 1) Slashing
damage plus 1 Necrotic damage.
Medium or Small Humanoid, Neutral
CULTIST FANATIC
AC 13 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 44 (8d8 + 8)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	11 	+0 	+0
DEX 	14 	+2 	+2
CON 	12 	+1 	+1
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	10 	+0 	+0
WIS 	14 	+2 	+4
CHA 	13 	+1 	+1
Skills Deception +3, Persuasion +3, Religion +2
Gear Holy Symbol, Leather Armor
Medium or Small Humanoid, Neutral

-- 24 of 30 --

Cultist Hierophant
Cultist hierophants are leaders who oversee the lives of their underlings, dictate the edicts of the cult, and interpret their patron’s will. They possess
supernatural powers gained from the cult’s patron, supernatural sources, or the power of their own fanaticism. These leaders know their cult’s deepest
secrets and often control strange relics, mystical sites, and monstrous servants.
Types of Cultists
Senses Passive Perception 12
Languages Common
CR 2 (XP 450; PB +2)
Actions
Pact Blade. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2) Slashing damage
plus 7 (2d6) Necrotic damage.
Spellcasting. The cultist casts one of the following spells, using Wisdom as
the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 12, +4 to hit with spell attacks):
At Will:
Light,
Thaumaturgy
2/Day:
Command
1/Day:
Hold Person
Bonus Actions
Spiritual Weapon (2/Day). The cultist casts the
Spiritual Weapon spell, using
the same spellcasting ability as Spellcasting.
CULTIST HIEROPHANT
AC 16 	Initiative +8 (18)
HP 144 (17d8 + 68)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	14 	+2 	+2
DEX 	18 	+4 	+4
CON 	18 	+4 	+4
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	13 	+1 	+1
WIS 	16 	+3 	+7
CHA 	20 	+5 	+9
Skills Perception +7, Persuasion +9, Religion +5
Gear Breastplate, Holy Symbol
Senses Passive Perception 17
Languages Celestial, Common
CR 10 (XP 5,900; PB +4)
Actions
Multiattack. The cultist makes three attacks, using Pact Blade or Radiant Ray
in any combination.
Pact Blade. Melee Attack Roll: +9, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) Slashing
damage plus 18 (4d8) Radiant damage.
Radiant Ray. Ranged Attack Roll: +9, range 120 ft.
Hit: 31 (4d12 + 5)
Radiant damage.
Spellcasting. The cultist casts one of the following spells, using Charisma as
the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17):
At Will:
Thaumaturgy
1/Day Each:
Jallarzi’s Storm of Radiance (level 7 version),
Mass Suggestion
Medium or Small Humanoid, Neutral
ARTIST: AURORE FOLNY

-- 25 of 30 --

Cults can organize around any mystical tradition, but many serve supernatural beings. Cult members often have abilities tied to the forces they worship.
Aberrant Cultist
Aberrant cultists pursue mind-bending powers from alien forces. Aberrant cultists align with monsters such as aboleths and mind flayers or forces such as
Cthulhu, Hadar, Ityak-Ortheel the Elf Eater, Nyarlathotep, malicious solar bodies, or entities from the Far Realm.
Death Cultist
Death cultists revel in nihilistic forces, embracing them as paths to undeath, multiversal purity, or entropic inevitability. These cultists serve powerful
undead beings, apocalyptic prophecies, or immortals with power over death, such as Acererak, Kyuss, Orcus, Vecna, or Wee Jas.
AN ABERRANT CULTIST AND AN ELEMENTAL CULTIST CLASH, UNLEASHING THE MAGIC OF THEIR OTHERWORLDLY PATRONS
ABERRANT CULTIST
AC 14 	Initiative +7 (17)
HP 137 (25d8 + 25)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	10 	+0 	+0
DEX 	19 	+4 	+4
CON 	12 	+1 	+1
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	16 	+3 	+6
WIS 	18 	+4 	+7
CHA 	15 	+2 	+2
Skills Arcana +6, Perception +7, Religion +6
Senses Darkvision 90 ft.; Passive Perception 17
Languages Common, Deep Speech; telepathy 30 ft.
CR 8 (XP 3,900; PB +3)
Actions
Multiattack. The cultist makes two Tentacle Lash attacks. It can replace any
attack with a use of Mind Rot.
Tentacle Lash. Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) Slashing
damage plus 14 (4d6) Psychic damage. If the target is a Large or smaller
creature, it has the Grappled condition (escape DC 14) from one of two
tentacles, and it has the Restrained condition until the grapple ends.
Mind Rot. Wisdom Saving Throw: DC 15, one creature the cultist can see within
90 feet.
Failure: 27 (6d8) Psychic damage, and the target has the Poisoned
condition until the start of the cultist’s next turn.
Success: Half damage only.
Spellcasting. The cultist casts one of the following spells, using Wisdom as
the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15):
At Will:
Detect Thoughts,
Minor Illusion
Reactions
Counterspell (2/Day). The cultist casts
Counterspell in response to that spell’s
trigger, using the same spellcasting ability as Spellcasting.
Medium or Small Humanoid, Neutral Evil
DEATH CULTIST

-- 26 of 30 --

Elemental Cultist
Elemental cultists harness destructive natural forces to cleanse the world of civilization or prove the dominance of one element over all others. Such
cultists are aligned with Elemental monsters or wicked immortals such as the Princes of Elemental Evil or the Elder Elemental Eye.
Fiend Cultist
Fiend cultists worship fiends or evil deities. They often work to bring ruin to innocents or to summon their sinister patron into the world. Fiend cultists might
serve infamous powers such as archdevils and demon lords, or foul immortals—beings such as Demogorgon, Pazuzu, Iuz, Zariel, or Zuggtmoy.
AC 17 	Initiative +4 (14)
HP 127 (15d8 + 60)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	19 	+4 	+4
DEX 	12 	+1 	+1
CON 	18 	+4 	+7
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	12 	+1 	+1
WIS 	16 	+3 	+6
CHA 	14 	+2 	+2
Skills Insight +6, Perception +6, Religion +4
Gear Splint Armor
Senses Passive Perception 16
Languages Common
CR 8 (XP 3,900; PB +3)
Actions
Multiattack. The cultist makes three attacks, using Dread Scythe or Deathly
Ray in any combination.
Dread Scythe. Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 9 (1d10 + 4) Slashing
damage plus 11 (2d10) Necrotic damage, and the target can’t regain Hit Points
until the end of its next turn.
Deathly Ray. Ranged Attack Roll: +6, range 120 ft.
Hit: 22 (4d10)
Necrotic damage.
Spellcasting. The cultist casts one of the following spells, using Wisdom as
the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14):
At Will:
Speak with Dead,
Thaumaturgy
Bonus Actions
Spirit Wail (Recharge 5–6). Wisdom Saving Throw: DC 14, each creature in a
20-foot Emanation originating from the cultist.
Failure: 14 (4d6) Psychic
damage, and the target has the Frightened condition until the end of its next
turn.
Success: Half damage only.
Medium or Small Humanoid, Neutral Evil
ELEMENTAL CULTIST
AC 16 	Initiative +4 (14)
HP 135 (18d8 + 54)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	18 	+4 	+4
DEX 	12 	+1 	+1
CON 	16 	+3 	+6
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	14 	+2 	+2
WIS 	18 	+4 	+7
CHA 	12 	+1 	+1
Skills Arcana +5, Perception +7, Religion +5
Gear Chain Mail
Senses Passive Perception 17
Languages Common, Primordial
CR 8 (XP 3,900; PB +3)
Actions
Multiattack. The cultist makes three attacks, using Elemental Flail or
Elemental Claw in any combination.
Elemental Flail. Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 25 (6d6 + 4) damage of a
type chosen by the cultist: Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Thunder.
Elemental Claw. Ranged Attack Roll: +7, range 120 ft.
Hit: 22 (4d10) damage of
a type chosen by the cultist: Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Thunder. If the target
is a Medium or smaller creature, the cultist moves the target up to 10 feet
straight toward or away from itself.
Spellcasting. The cultist casts one of the following spells, using Wisdom as
the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15):
At Will:
Elementalism,
Mage Hand
Reactions
Elemental Absorption (1/Day). Trigger: The cultist takes Acid, Cold, Fire,
Lightning, or Thunder damage.
Response: The cultist gives itself Resistance to
that instance of damage and gains 10 Temporary Hit Points.
Medium or Small Humanoid, Chaotic Evil
Dread Tharizdun, power of the Elder Elemental Eye and master
of all destructive forces, I am the Champion of Elemental Evil
and am ready to carry out your wishes.
—RITES OF THE CULT OF ELEMENTAL EVIL

-- 27 of 30 --

Cyclopes
Monocular Servants of Destiny
Habitat: Coastal, Desert, Grassland, Hill, Mountain, Underdark; Treasure: Armaments
Cyclopes are gigantic, one-eyed descendants of the gods. Using their mystical vision, cyclopes can witness how future events are likely to occur.
Cyclops Oracle
Cyclops oracles gaze through history to learn hidden truths. Many share these secrets with those who aid them in correcting the mistakes of the past.
Cyclops Sentry
Most cyclops sentries serve their divine progenitors and oppose those who would tamper with fate.
FIEND CULTIST
AC 16 	Initiative +5 (15)
HP 127 (17d8 + 51)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	19 	+4 	+4
DEX 	15 	+2 	+2
CON 	16 	+3 	+6
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	12 	+1 	+1
WIS 	18 	+4 	+7
CHA 	10 	+0 	+0
Skills Perception +7, Religion +4
Gear Breastplate
Senses Darkvision 90 ft. (unimpeded by magical Darkness); Passive
Perception 17
Languages Abyssal, Common, Infernal
CR 8 (XP 3,900; PB +3)
Actions
Multiattack. The cultist makes three Pact Axe attacks.
Pact Axe. Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 10 (1d12 + 4) Slashing damage
plus 13 (3d8) Fire damage.
Spellcasting. The cultist casts one of the following spells, using Wisdom as
the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15, +7 to hit with spell attacks):
At Will:
Scorching Ray (level 5 version),
Thaumaturgy
2/Day:
Fireball (level 6 version)
Reactions
Hellish Rebuke. The cultist casts
Hellish Rebuke in response to that spell’s
trigger, using the same spellcasting ability as Spellcasting.
Medium or Small Humanoid, Neutral Evil
CYCLOPS ORACLE
AC 16 	Initiative +8 (18)
HP 207 (18d12 + 90)
Speed 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	22 	+6 	+6
DEX 	11 	+0 	+0
CON 	20 	+5 	+9
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	16 	+3 	+3
WIS 	18 	+4 	+8
CHA 	10 	+0 	+0
Skills History +11, Perception +12
Senses Truesight 30 ft.; Passive Perception 22
Languages Giant
CR 10 (XP 5,900; PB +4)
Actions
Multiattack. The cyclops makes three attacks, using Radiant Strike or Flash of
Light in any combination.
Radiant Strike. Melee Attack Roll: +10, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 22 (3d10 + 6)
Radiant damage.
Flash of Light. Ranged Attack Roll: +10, range 120 ft.
Hit: 17 (2d10 + 6) Radiant
damage, and the target has Disadvantage on attack rolls until the end of the
cyclops’s next turn.
Spellcasting. The cyclops casts one of the following spells, requiring no
Material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save
DC 16):
2/Day Each:
Arcane Eye,
Detect Magic,
Locate Object
1/Day:
Legend Lore
Reactions
Portent (Recharge 4–6). Trigger: The cyclops or an ally it can see makes a
D20 Test.
Response: The cyclops rolls 1d20 and chooses whether to use that
roll in place of the d20 rolled for the D20 Test.
Huge Giant, Chaotic Neutral

-- 28 of 30 --

Our Terms of Service and Privacy Notice have recently been updated to provide greater clarity as to how disputes are handled and transparency
regarding the collection and use of personal data. Please review them here: Terms of Service, Privacy Notice. By continuing to use the services, you
agree to the new Terms.
SUPPORT
Help Portal
Support Forum
System Status
ABOUT
Contact Us
Careers
Wizards of the
Coast
FIND US ON SOCIAL
MEDIA
DOWNLOAD THE D&D BEYOND
APP
CYCLOPS SENTRY
AC 14 	Initiative +0 (10)
HP 138 (12d12 + 60)
Speed 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	22 	+6 	+6
DEX 	11 	+0 	+0
CON 	20 	+5 	+5
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	8 	−1 	−1
WIS 	6 	−2 	−2
CHA 	10 	+0 	+0
Senses Passive Perception 8
Languages Giant
CR 6 (XP 2,300; PB +3)
Actions
Multiattack. The cyclops makes two attacks, using Stone Club or Rock in
any combination.
Stone Club. Melee Attack Roll: +9, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 16 (3d6 + 6) Bludgeoning
damage. If the target is a Huge or smaller creature, it has the Prone condition.
Rock. Ranged Attack Roll: +9, range 30/120 ft.
Hit: 22 (3d10 + 6)
Bludgeoning damage.
Reactions
Limited Foresight (Recharge 6). Trigger: A creature the cyclops can see makes
an attack roll against it.
Response: The cyclops imposes Disadvantage on the
roll, and the cyclops gains Advantage on attack rolls against the target until
the end of the cyclops’s next turn.
Huge Giant, Chaotic Neutral
ARTIST: DAARKEN

-- 29 of 30 --

Do Not Sell or Share
My Personal
Information
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Notice
System Reference
Document (SRD)
© 2017-2026 WIZARDS OF THE COAST LLC | ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
Dungeons & Dragons, D&D Beyond, D&D, Wizards of the Coast, the dragon ampersand, and all other Wizards of the Coast
product names, campaign settings, their respective logos, and The World's Greatest Roleplaying Game are © and trademark
Wizards of the Coast in the U.S.A. and other countries. © 2026 Wizards.
PRIVACY POLICY 	TERMS OF SERVICE

-- 30 of 30 --

=== Monsters (D) - Monster Manual - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond.pdf ===
MONSTERS (C) 	MONSTERS (E)
Monsters (D)
Dao
Genie of the Earth
Habitat: Planar (Elemental Plane of Earth), Underdark; Treasure: Implements
Genies of minerals and gemstones, dao embody the resolve of rock. Using innate magic, they move through the earth unimpeded, exploring depths
inaccessible to most. Dao delight in the treasures of the earth, whether raw gemstones, jewelry crafted from pure metals, or wondrous fossils. In exchange
for such treasures, dao might reveal underground mysteries, such as paths through the Underdark, buried ruins, or whole subterranean realms.
Many dao call the Elemental Plane of Earth home. There, they create cities that glitter with treasure. Among these realms is the labyrinthine expanse called
the Great Dismal Delve or the Sevenfold Mazework, which protects the City of Jewels, the Iron Crucible, and the Strait of Magnets.
ARTIST: MICHAEL BROUSSARD
On the Elemental Plane of Earth, galaxies of gemstones twinkle
over vaults of treasure. If dao are there, so is wealth worth
hunting.
—GUNDREN ROCKSEEKER, DWARF TREASURE HUNTER
DAO
AC 18 	Initiative +1 (11)
HP 200 (16d10 + 112)
Speed 30 ft., Burrow 30 ft., Fly 30 ft. (hover)
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	23 	+6 	+6
DEX 	12 	+1 	+5
CON 	24 	+7 	+7
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	12 	+1 	+1
WIS 	13 	+1 	+5
CHA 	18 	+4 	+4
Immunities Petrified
Senses Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 11
Languages Primordial (Terran)
CR 11 (XP 7,200; PB +4)
Traits
Earth Glide. The dao can burrow through nonmagical, unworked earth and
stone. While doing so, the dao doesn’t disturb the material it moves through.
Large Elemental (Genie), Neutral

-- 1 of 23 --

Darkmantle
Ceiling-Clinging Ambush Predator
Habitat: Underdark; Treasure: None
Unnatural subterranean hunters, darkmantles veil themselves in magical shadows and use their bizarre anatomies to disguise themselves as stalactites.
When prey passes below, lurking darkmantles drop and unfurl their webbed tentacles, attempting to blind, suffocate, or crush their victims.
Darkmantles share similarities with piercers and ropers and often hunt near those monsters. Scholars have attempted to establish a shared origin or life
cycle between those creatures, but their efforts are thwarted by those monsters’ supernatural physiologies and deadly natures.
Elemental Restoration. If the dao dies outside the Elemental Plane of Earth, its
body dissolves into dirt, and it gains a new body in 1d4 days, reviving with all
its Hit Points somewhere on the Plane of Earth.
Magic Resistance. The dao has Advantage on saving throws against spells
and other magical effects.
Wishes. The dao has a 30 percent chance of knowing the
Wish spell. If the dao
knows it, the dao can cast it only on behalf of a non-genie creature who
communicates a wish in a way the dao can understand. If the dao casts the
spell for the creature, the dao suffers none of the spell’s stress. Once the dao
has cast it three times, the dao can’t do so again for 365 days.
Actions
Multiattack. The dao makes three Earthen Maul attacks or two Earth
Burst attacks.
Earthen Maul. Melee Attack Roll: +10, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 20 (4d6 + 6) Bludgeoning
damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it has the Prone condition.
Earth Burst. Ranged Attack Roll: +10, range 120 ft.
Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6)
Bludgeoning damage.
Hit or Miss: Earth explodes from the target’s space,
creating the following effect.
Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 16, each creature in a
10-foot Emanation originating from and including the target.
Failure: 10 (3d6)
Thunder damage.
Spellcasting. The dao casts one of the following spells, requiring no Material
components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16):
At Will:
Detect Evil and Good,
Detect Magic,
Stone Shape
1/Day Each:
Gaseous Form,
Invisibility,
Move Earth,
Passwall,
Plane Shift,
Tongues,
Wall of Stone
Just assume there’s no such thing as a stalactite.
—S. WAKEMAN, UNDERDARK EXPLORER
DARKMANTLE
AC 11 	Initiative +3 (13)
HP 22 (5d6 + 5)
Speed 10 ft., Fly 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	16 	+3 	+3
DEX 	12 	+1 	+1
CON 	13 	+1 	+1
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	2 	−4 	−4
WIS 	10 	+0 	+0
CHA 	5 	−3 	−3
Skills Stealth +3
Senses Blindsight 60 ft.; Passive Perception 10
Languages None
CR 1/2 (XP 100; PB +2)
Actions
Crush. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) Bludgeoning damage,
and the darkmantle attaches to the target. If the target is a Medium or smaller
creature and the darkmantle had Advantage on the attack roll, it covers the
target, which has the Blinded condition and is suffocating while the darkmantle
is attached in this way.
While attached to a target, the darkmantle can attack only the target but has
Advantage on its attack rolls. Its Speed becomes 0, it can’t benefit from any
bonus to its Speed, and it moves with the target.
A creature can take an action to try to detach the darkmantle from itself, doing
so with a successful DC 13 Strength (Athletics) check. On its turn, the
darkmantle can detach itself by using 5 feet of movement.
Darkness Aura (1/Day). Magical Darkness fills a 15-foot Emanation originating
from the darkmantle. This effect lasts while the darkmantle maintains
Concentration on it, up to 10 minutes. Darkvision can’t penetrate this area, and
no light can illuminate it.
Small Aberration, Unaligned

-- 2 of 23 --

Death Dog
Two-Headed Spreader of Disease
Habitat: Desert; Treasure: None
ARTIST: BRIAN VALENZUELA
ARTIST: DAREN BADER
...and his sorrows will stalk your land like hungry dogs until the
seas turn to sand and the sun burns to cinders.
—TABLET FRAGMENT FROM THE BRIGHT DESERT

-- 3 of 23 --

Death dogs are plagues on the arid lands they inhabit. These vicious, two-headed canines ambush creatures they perceive as weaker than themselves,
favoring the wounded or infirm. They attack recklessly, infecting as many creatures as possible with their diseased jaws. If driven off, death dogs linger
close to their victims, letting infection weaken their prey before they attack again.
Legends tie death dogs to malicious death gods, the underworld, and cursed rulers. These stories are based on the malady death dogs spread. Roll on or
choose a result from the Death Dog Malady Symptoms table to inspire symptoms spread by a death dog’s bite. These symptoms are cosmetic and don’t
alter the effects of the death dog’s Bite action. The symptoms vanish when a creature no longer has the Poisoned condition from a death dog’s Bite.
Death Dog Malady Symptoms
1d6 	The Death Dog’s Malady Causes...
1 	Marks from canine jaws to appear on the victim’s body, as if they were still being mauled.
2 	The victim’s body to wither, as if constantly exposed to desert heat.
3 	The victim to be distracted by distant howling or vague whispers only they can hear.
4 	The victim’s flesh to rot like a corpse.
5 	The victim to itch, as if they had fleas or sand beneath their skin.
6 	Wicked symbols to gradually appear on and spread across the victim’s body.
Death Knights
Haunted Commanders of Unliving Legions
Habitat: Any; Treasure: Armaments
DEATH DOG
AC 12 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 39 (6d8 + 12)
Speed 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	15 	+2 	+2
DEX 	14 	+2 	+2
CON 	14 	+2 	+2
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	3 	−4 	−4
WIS 	13 	+1 	+1
CHA 	6 	−2 	−2
Skills Perception +5, Stealth +4
Immunities Blinded, Charmed, Deafened, Frightened, Stunned, Unconscious
Senses Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 15
Languages None
CR 1 (XP 200; PB +2)
Actions
Multiattack. The death dog makes two Bite attacks.
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) Piercing damage. If the
target is a creature, it is subjected to the following effect.
Constitution Saving
Throw: DC 12.
First Failure: The target has the Poisoned condition. While
Poisoned, the target’s Hit Point maximum doesn’t return to normal when
finishing a Long Rest, and it repeats the save every 24 hours that elapse, ending
the effect on itself on a success.
Subsequent Failures: The Poisoned target’s
Hit Point maximum decreases by 5 (1d10).
Medium Monstrosity, Neutral Evil
ARTIST: ALEX BROCK

-- 4 of 23 --

Champions of evil, death knights are armor-clad, skeletal warlords. Combining devastating martial prowess and blasphemous magic, these undying tyrants
lead unholy legions against the living or brood in cursed citadels. Every death knight is haunted by a legacy of tragedy and dishonor that drives it to commit
greater evils.
Death Knight
Death knights are deadly combatants and domineering commanders with grim histories. Some strive to end the curses that doom them to undeath, though
their selfish souls eternally shackle them to their fates. Others, like the infamous death knight Lord Soth, brood in dismal ruins for centuries, rousing
themselves to action only when something reignites their deathless evil.
A DEATH KNIGHT AND ITS ASPIRANTS MARCH TO WAR AGAINST THE LIVING
DEATH KNIGHT
AC 20 	Initiative +12 (22)
HP 199 (21d8 + 105)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	20 	+5 	+5
DEX 	11 	+0 	+6
CON 	20 	+5 	+5
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	12 	+1 	+1
WIS 	16 	+3 	+9
CHA 	18 	+4 	+4
Immunities Necrotic, Poison; Exhaustion, Frightened, Poisoned
Senses Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 13
Languages Abyssal, Common
CR 17 (XP 18,000; PB +6)
Traits
Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the death knight fails a saving throw, it can
choose to succeed instead.
Magic Resistance. The death knight has Advantage on saving throws against
spells and other magical effects.
Marshal Undead. Undead creatures of the death knight’s choice (excluding
itself) in a 60-foot Emanation originating from it have Advantage on attack rolls
and saving throws. It can’t use this trait if it has the Incapacitated condition.
Undead Restoration. If the death knight is destroyed before it atones for its
evil, it gains a new body in 1d10 days, reviving with all its Hit Points. The new
body appears in a location significant to the death knight.
Actions
Multiattack. The death knight makes three Dread Blade attacks.
Dread Blade. Melee Attack Roll: +11, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) Slashing
damage plus 13 (3d8) Necrotic damage.
Hellfire Orb (Recharge 5–6). Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 18, each creature in a
20-foot-radius Sphere centered on a point the death knight can see within 120
feet.
Failure: 35 (10d6) Fire damage plus 35 (10d6) Necrotic damage.
Success:
Half damage.
Medium or Small Undead, Chaotic Evil

-- 5 of 23 --

Death Knight Aspirant
When the leader of a villainous order rises as a death knight, their wicked devotees might join them in their cursed existence as death knight aspirants.
These followers bear a measure of their leader’s power and serve as they did in life, obediently following the death knight’s decrees and heralding its terrible
will.
Death Tyrant
Beholder beyond Death
Habitat: Underdark; Treasure: Any
Spellcasting. The death knight casts one of the following spells, requiring no
Material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell
save DC 18):
At Will:
Command,
Phantom Steed
2/Day Each:
Destructive Wave (Necrotic),
Dispel Magic
Reactions
Parry. Trigger: The death knight is hit by a melee attack roll while holding a
weapon.
Response: The death knight adds 6 to its AC against that attack,
possibly causing it to miss.
Legendary Actions
Legendary Action Uses: 3. Immediately after another creature’s turn, the death
knight can expend a use to take one of the following actions. The death knight
regains all expended uses at the start of each of its turns.
Dread Authority. The death knight uses Spellcasting to cast
Command. The
death knight can’t take this action again until the start of its next turn.
Fell Word. Constitution Saving Throw: DC 18, one creature the death knight can
see within 120 feet.
Failure: 17 (5d6) Necrotic damage, and the target’s Hit
Point maximum decreases by an amount equal to the damage taken.
Failure
or Success: The death knight can’t take this action again until the start of its
next turn.
Lunge. The death knight moves up to half its Speed, and it makes one Dread
Blade attack.
DEATH KNIGHT ASPIRANT
AC 20 	Initiative +4 (14)
HP 178 (21d8 + 84)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	20 	+5 	+5
DEX 	10 	+0 	+4
CON 	18 	+4 	+4
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	10 	+0 	+0
WIS 	12 	+1 	+5
CHA 	16 	+3 	+3
Immunities Necrotic, Poison; Exhaustion, Frightened, Poisoned
Senses Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 11
Languages Abyssal, Common
CR 11 (XP 7,200; PB +4)
Traits
Magic Resistance. The aspirant has Advantage on saving throws against
spells and other magical effects.
Marshal Undead. Undead creatures of the aspirant’s choice (excluding itself) in
a 60-foot Emanation originating from it have Advantage on attack rolls and
saving throws. It can’t use this trait if it has the Incapacitated condition.
Actions
Multiattack. The aspirant makes three Dread Blade attacks.
Dread Blade. Melee Attack Roll: +9, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) Slashing
damage plus 10 (3d6) Necrotic damage.
Hellfire Orb (Recharge 5–6). Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 15, each creature in a
20-foot-radius Sphere centered on a point the aspirant can see within 120 feet
of itself.
Failure: 21 (6d6) Fire damage plus 21 (6d6) Necrotic damage.
Success: Half damage.
Spellcasting. The aspirant casts one of the following spells, using Charisma
as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15):
At Will:
Phantom Steed
1/Day Each:
Destructive Wave (Necrotic),
Dispel Magic
Reactions
Parry. Trigger: The aspirant is hit by a melee attack roll while holding a
weapon.
Response: The aspirant adds 4 to its AC against that attack, possibly
causing it to miss.
Medium or Small Undead, Chaotic Evil
ARTIST: SIMON DOMINIC

-- 6 of 23 --

A death tyrant is a beholder that pursues aberrant goals beyond its death. Ten magical singularities—all that remains of its magical eyes—orbit its floating,
cyclopean skull, while the hateful gaze of its central eye socket stifles life and raises the dead.
Beholders typically transform into death tyrants over years when their dreams fixate on death, morbid apotheoses, or journeys to realms inhospitable to life.
Some death tyrants rise from the corpses of slain beholders or result from exposure to strange magic or Underdark radiation. Sometimes beholders
purposefully pursue this undead state, just as depraved magic-users pursue lichdom, although it is rare, as most beholders already believe themselves to be
perfect beings.
No matter how death tyrants come into being, bizarre impulses drive their deathless existences. Their motivations tend to be extreme or beyond the reason
of living creatures.
Death Tyrant Lairs
Death tyrants often lurk deep in the Underdark, in the tunnel-mazes they occupied in life or in the lairs of enemy beholders they conquered. These lairs are
devoid of life, as death tyrants change their servants into Undead horrors.
The region containing a death tyrant’s lair is warped by its presence, creating the following effects:
Negative Energy Suffusion. Whenever a creature within 1 mile of the lair regains Hit Points from a spell, it subtracts 1d10 from the number of Hit Points
regained.
Scopophobia. Creatures within 1 mile of the lair feel as if they’re being watched. Any creature (excluding the death tyrant and its allies) that finishes a Short
Rest while within 1 mile of the lair must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or gain no benefit from that rest.
If the death tyrant dies or moves its lair elsewhere, these effects end immediately.
A cluster of tiny lights descended from a dark crevice in the
ceiling. These motes cast an eerie glow on the great, alien skull
that hung beneath them.
—JOURNAL OF JASTUS HOLLOWQUILL,
EXPLORER OF UNDERMOUNTAIN

-- 7 of 23 --

Demilich
What Lies beyond Lichdom
Habitat: Any; Treasure: Arcana
A demilich is a skull harboring the remnants of a lich’s wicked essence. If the burden of immortality overwhelms a lich, its consciousness turns inward as its
body rots away. But if its remains are disturbed, a demilich rises. Demiliches usually appear as skulls adorned with gems or arcane sigils.
Demilich Lairs
DEATH TYRANT
AC 19 	Initiative +12 (22)
HP 195 (26d10 + 52)
Speed 5 ft., Fly 40 ft. (hover)
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	18 	+4 	+4
DEX 	14 	+2 	+2
CON 	14 	+2 	+7
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	19 	+4 	+4
WIS 	15 	+2 	+7
CHA 	19 	+4 	+4
Skills Perception +12
Immunities Poison; Charmed, Exhaustion, Paralyzed, Petrified,
Poisoned, Prone
Senses Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 22
Languages Deep Speech, Undercommon
CR 14 (XP 11,500, or 13,000 in lair; PB +5)
Traits
Legendary Resistance (3/Day, or 4/Day in Lair). If the death tyrant fails a
saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
Actions
Multiattack. The death tyrant uses Eye Rays three times.
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +9, reach 5 feet.
Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) Piercing damage.
Eye Rays. The death tyrant randomly shoots one of the following magical rays
at a target it can see within 120 feet of itself (roll 1d10; reroll if the death tyrant
has already used that ray during this turn):
1. Charm Ray.
Wisdom Saving Throw: DC 17.
Failure: 13 (3d8) Psychic
damage, and the target has the Charmed condition for 1 hour or until it
takes damage.
Success: Half damage only.
2. Paralyzing Ray.
Constitution Saving Throw: DC 17.
Failure: The target
has the Paralyzed condition and repeats the save at the end of each of
its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. After 1 minute, it
succeeds automatically.
3. Fear Ray.
Wisdom Saving Throw: DC 17.
Failure: 10 (3d6) Psychic
damage, and the target has the Frightened condition until the end of its
next turn.
Success: Half damage only.
4. Slowing Ray.
Constitution Saving Throw: DC 17.
Failure: 18 (4d8)
Necrotic damage. Until the end of the target’s next turn, the target can’t
take Reactions; its Speed is halved; and it can take either an action or a
Bonus Action on its turn, not both.
Success: Half damage only.
5. Enervation Ray.
Constitution Saving Throw: DC 17.
Failure: 16 (3d10)
Poison damage, and the target has the Poisoned condition until the end
of its next turn. While Poisoned, the target can’t regain Hit Points.
Success: Half damage only.
6. Telekinetic Ray.
Strength Saving Throw: DC 17 (the target succeeds
automatically if it is Gargantuan).
Failure: The death tyrant moves the
target up to 30 feet in any direction. The target has the Restrained
condition until the start of the death tyrant’s next turn or until the death
tyrant has the Incapacitated condition. The death tyrant can also exert
fine control on objects with this ray, such as manipulating a tool or
opening a door or container.
7. Sleep Ray.
Wisdom Saving Throw: DC 17 (the target succeeds
automatically if it is a Construct or an Undead).
Failure: The target has
the Unconscious condition for 1 minute. The condition ends if the target
takes damage or a creature within 5 feet of it takes an action to wake it.
8. Petrification Ray.
Constitution Saving Throw: DC 17.
First Failure: The
target has the Restrained condition and repeats the save at the end of its
next turn if it is still Restrained, ending the effect on itself on a success.
Second Failure: The target has the Petrified condition instead of the
Restrained condition.
9. Disintegration Ray.
Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 17.
Failure: 36 (8d8) Force
damage. If the target is a nonmagical object or a creation of magical
force, a 10-foot Cube of it disintegrates into dust.
Success: Half damage.
Failure or Success: If the target is a creature and this damage reduces it
to 0 Hit Points, it disintegrates into dust.
10. Death Ray.
Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 17.
Failure: 55 (10d10) Necrotic
damage.
Success: Half damage.
Failure or Success: The target dies if the
ray reduces it to 0 Hit Points.
Bonus Actions
Negative Energy Cone. The death tyrant’s central eye emits an imperceptible,
magical wave of negative energy in a 150-foot Cone. Creatures in that area
can’t regain Hit Points until the start of the death tyrant’s next turn. An intact
Humanoid corpse there instantly rises as a Zombie under the death tyrant’s
control and takes its turn immediately after the death tyrant on the same
Initiative count.
Legendary Actions
Legendary Action Uses: 3 (4 in Lair). Immediately after another creature’s turn,
the death tyrant can expend a use to take one of the following actions. The
death tyrant regains all expended uses at the start of each of its turns.
Chomp. The death tyrant makes two Bite attacks.
Glare. The death tyrant uses Eye Rays.
Large Undead (Beholder), Lawful Evil
ARTIST: FURY GALLUZZI

-- 8 of 23 --

Demiliches jealously guard their deathtrap-laden sanctums. The most notorious
of these is the Tomb of Horrors, lair of the infamous Acererak.
The region containing a demilich’s lair is twisted by its presence, creating the
following effects:
Enervating Domain. Whenever a creature other than the demilich or one of its
allies finishes a Long Rest within 1 mile of the lair, the creature must succeed on
a DC 20 Constitution saving throw or have its Hit Point maximum reduced by
1d4. This reduction lasts until the creature finishes a Long Rest outside that area.
Travel Ward. Creatures can’t use teleportation or planar travel to enter or exit the
lair.
If the demilich dies or moves its lair elsewhere, these effects end immediately.
DEMILICH
AC 20 	Initiative +17 (27)
HP 180 (72d4)
Speed 5 ft., Fly 30 ft. (hover)
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	1 	−5 	−5
DEX 	20 	+5 	+11
CON 	10 	+0 	+6
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	20 	+5 	+11
WIS 	17 	+3 	+9
CHA 	20 	+5 	+5
Resistances Bludgeoning, Piercing, Slashing
Immunities Necrotic, Poison, Psychic; Charmed, Deafened, Exhaustion,
Frightened, Paralyzed, Petrified, Poisoned, Prone, Stunned
Senses Truesight 120 ft.; Passive Perception 13
Languages None
CR 18 (XP 20,000, or 22,000 in lair; PB +6)
Traits
Legendary Resistance (3/Day, or 4/Day in Lair). If the demilich fails a saving
throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
Undead Restoration. If the demilich is destroyed, it reforms and regains all its
Hit Points in 1d10 days unless a
Wish spell is cast on its remains.
Actions
Multiattack. The demilich makes three Necrotic Burst attacks.
Necrotic Burst. Melee or Ranged Attack Roll: +11, reach 5 ft. or range 120 ft.
Hit: 24 (7d6) Necrotic damage.
Howl (Recharge 5–6). Constitution Saving Throw: DC 19, each creature in a 30-
foot Emanation originating from the demilich.
Failure: 70 (20d6) Psychic
damage.
Failure or Success: The target has the Frightened condition until the
start of the demilich’s next turn.
Legendary Actions
Legendary Action Uses: 3 (4 in Lair). Immediately after another creature’s turn,
the demilich can expend a use to take one of the following actions. The
demilich regains all expended uses at the start of each of its turns.
Energy Drain. Constitution Saving Throw: DC 19, one creature the demilich can
see within 120 feet.
Failure: The target’s Hit Point maximum decreases by 14
(4d6).
Failure or Success: The demilich can’t take this action again until the
start of its next turn.
Grave-Dust Flight. The demilich flies up to its Fly Speed, shedding grave dust.
Each creature within 5 feet of the demilich as it moves is targeted once by the
following effect.
Constitution Saving Throw: DC 19.
Failure: The target has the
Blinded condition until the end of the demilich’s next turn.
Failure or Success:
The demilich can’t take this action again until the start of its next turn.
Necrosis. The demilich makes one Necrotic Burst attack.
Tiny Undead, Neutral Evil
ARTIST: SEAN MURRAY

-- 9 of 23 --

Deva
World-Changing Angelic Messenger
Habitat: Planar (Upper Planes); Treasure: Relics
Devas are emissaries of divine will. These immortal messengers adopt the
shapes of mystical beasts or idealized, winged mortals. As with all angels, their
true forms are known only to the gods they serve.
Rather than literal correspondence from a god, a deva conveys an allegory or
quest to mortals, tasking them with delivering something to its rightful place.
While the angel might be called on in times of need, it encourages mortal
heroism. Should a deva’s chosen champions carry out their charge, they
experience a revelation or the world is changed in line with divine purpose. Roll on
or choose a result from the Deva Messages table to inspire a deva’s charge.
Deva Messages
1d6 	The Deva Tasks a Mortal with Delivering...
1 	The corpse of a hero in need of redemption.
2 	The cure for a plague in a distant land.
3 	A holy coffer that must not be opened.
4 	A magic weapon usable only by a true hero.
5 	A seedling that wilts if exposed to anger.
6 	Someone from another world with a prophesied purpose but no memory.
DEVA
AC 17 	Initiative +4 (14)
HP 229 (27d8 + 108)
Speed 30 ft., Fly 90 ft. (hover)
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	18 	+4 	+4
DEX 	18 	+4 	+4
CON 	18 	+4 	+4
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	17 	+3 	+3
WIS 	20 	+5 	+9
CHA 	20 	+5 	+9
Skills Insight +9, Perception +9
Resistances Radiant
Immunities Charmed, Exhaustion, Frightened
Senses Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 19
Languages All; telepathy 120 ft.
CR 10 (XP 5,900; PB +4)
Traits
Exalted Restoration. If the deva dies outside Mount Celestia, its body
disappears, and it gains a new body instantly, reviving with all its Hit Points
somewhere in Mount Celestia.
Magic Resistance. The deva has Advantage on saving throws against spells
and other magical effects.
Actions
Multiattack. The deva makes two Holy Mace attacks.
Holy Mace. Melee Attack Roll: +8, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) Bludgeoning
damage plus 18 (4d8) Radiant damage.
Spellcasting. The deva casts one of the following spells, requiring no Material
components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17):
At Will:
Detect Evil and Good,
Shapechange (Beast or Humanoid form only, no
Temporary Hit Points gained from the spell, and no Concentration or
Temporary Hit Points required to maintain the spell)
1/Day Each:
Commune,
Raise Dead
Medium Celestial (Angel), Lawful Good

-- 10 of 23 --

Displacer Beast
Deceptive Feline Stalker
Habitat: Forest; Treasure: None
A displacer beast resembles a gaunt, six-legged panther with a barbed tentacle sprouting from each of its shoulders. This predator uses innate magic to
displace light so it appears to be several feet away from its actual location.
Displacer beasts hunt not just to feed but because they enjoy killing. Once displacer beasts begin stalking prey, they can’t be deterred until either they or
their quarry is slain. While displacer beasts commonly inhabit dense forests, they might pursue travelers across great distances and even into cities or
dungeons. More cunning than mere animals, these predators might set ambushes or lie hidden for days to bring down their prey.
Displacer beasts sometimes pursue prey through portals to other planes of existence. As a result, these predators can be found across the multiverse,
particularly on the worlds of the Material Plane, in the Shadowfell, and in the Feywild. These restless hunters can destroy a land’s natural balance and drive
other creatures to extinction. As a result, many druid circles and Fey view displacer beasts as deadly threats.
Bonus Actions
Divine Aid (2/Day). The deva casts
Cure Wounds,
Lesser Restoration, or
Remove Curse, using the same spellcasting ability as Spellcasting.
ARTIST: CAIO MONTEIRO
DISPLACER BEAST
AC 13 	Initiative +4 (14)
HP 76 (9d10 + 27)
Speed 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	18 	+4 	+4
DEX 	15 	+2 	+2
CON 	16 	+3 	+3
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	6 	−2 	−2
WIS 	12 	+1 	+1
CHA 	8 	−1 	−1
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 11
Languages Understands Sylvan but can’t speak
CR 3 (XP 700; PB +2)
Large Monstrosity, Lawful Evil

-- 11 of 23 --

Djinni
Genie of the Air
Habitat: Coastal, Planar (Elemental Plane of Air); Treasure: Arcana
As genies of wind and skies, djinn personify freedom and might. They can control
wind and travel as swiftly as a breeze. They might be as serene as drifting clouds
or as tempestuous as storms, but most djinn relish their freedom and desire to
discover the wonders of the multiverse. Djinn often know many stories, and they
might share such lore with those who offer their own exciting stories in trade.
While many djinn create airy palaces on stormy coasts or high in the clouds,
untold numbers dwell on the Elemental Plane of Air. In floating cities, djinn
collect tales and experiences from across the planes of existence, sharing them
in fabulous forums, libraries, and theaters. The greatest of these cities is the
Citadel of Ice and Steel, in which wind-sculpted towers contain a city-size trove of
incredible knowledge and treasures that defy belief.
Traits
Avoidance. If the displacer beast is subjected to an effect that allows it to
make a saving throw to take only half damage, it instead takes no damage if it
succeeds on the save and half damage if it fails. It can’t use this trait if it has
the Incapacitated condition.
Displacement. Attack rolls against the displacer beast have Disadvantage,
since it projects an illusion that makes it appear to be near its actual
location. This trait is suppressed while the displacer beast has the
Incapacitated condition.
Actions
Multiattack. The displacer beast makes one Rend attack and one
Tentacle attack.
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +6, reach 5 feet.
Hit: 9 (1d10 + 4) Slashing damage. If
target is a Large or smaller creature, it has the Prone condition.
Tentacle. Melee Attack Roll: +6, reach 10 feet.
Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4)
Piercing damage.
The murderous fury of a displacer beast is fit only for
nightmares, of which I’ve been haunted since narrowly escaping
one’s ambush. I’m certain that beast stalks me still.
—JEN-AHB, NATURALIST AND DISPLACER BEAST SURVIVOR
ARTIST: MICHAEL BROUSSARD
DJINNI
AC 17 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 218 (19d10 + 114)
Speed 30 ft., Fly 90 ft. (hover)
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	21 	+5 	+5
DEX 	15 	+2 	+6
CON 	22 	+6 	+6
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	15 	+2 	+2
WIS 	16 	+3 	+7
CHA 	20 	+5 	+5
Immunities Lightning, Thunder
Senses Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 13
Languages Primordial (Auran)
CR 11 (XP 7,200; PB +4)
Traits
Elemental Restoration. If the djinni dies outside the Elemental Plane of Air, its
body dissolves into mist, and it gains a new body in 1d4 days, reviving with all
its Hit Points somewhere on the Plane of Air.
Magic Resistance. The djinni has Advantage on saving throws against spells
and other magical effects.
Large Elemental (Genie), Neutral

-- 12 of 23 --

Doppelganger
Shape-Shifting Infiltrator
Habitat: Underdark, Urban; Treasure: Individual
Doppelgangers are supernatural beings with the ability to shape-shift into any humanlike form. Their mind-reading abilities aid them in creating near-
perfect disguises and plucking secrets from unguarded minds. Occasionally, doppelgangers use their shape-shifting ability in more overt ways,
transforming into unsettling forms to frighten foes.
A doppelganger’s agenda might relate to its mysterious magical origins or to
more mercenary goals. Roll on or choose a result from the Doppelganger
Deceptions table to inspire a doppelganger’s plot.
Doppelganger Deceptions
1d6 	The Doppelganger Schemes To...
1 Cause chaos within the temple of a deity that cursed it to live
without a true form.
2 	Conceal evidence of a vast conspiracy.
3 Control a community through fear by posing as a legendary
bogeyman.
4 	Replace a noble to enjoy a decadent lifestyle.
5 Spy on wizards to learn how to complete its own botched
magical creation.
6 Take an influential position, acting as a sleeper agent for a
doppelganger invasion.
Wishes. The djinni has a 30 percent chance of knowing the
Wish spell. If the
djinni knows it, the djinni can cast it only on behalf of a non-genie creature who
communicates a wish in a way the djinni can understand. If the djinni casts the
spell for the creature, the djinni suffers none of the spell’s stress. Once the
djinni has cast it three times, the djinni can’t do so again for 365 days.
Actions
Multiattack. The djinni makes three attacks, using Storm Blade or Storm Bolt
in any combination.
Storm Blade. Melee Attack Roll: +9, reach 5 feet.
Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) Slashing
damage plus 7 (2d6) Lightning damage.
Storm Bolt. Ranged Attack Roll: +9, range 120 feet.
Hit: 13 (3d8) Thunder
damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it has the Prone condition.
Create Whirlwind. The djinni conjures a whirlwind at a point it can see within
120 feet. The whirlwind fills a 20-foot-radius, 60-foot-high Cylinder centered on
that point. The whirlwind lasts until the djinni’s Concentration on it ends. The
djinni can move the whirlwind up to 20 feet at the start of each of its turns.
Whenever the whirlwind enters a creature’s space or a creature enters the
whirlwind, that creature is subjected to the following effect.
Strength Saving
Throw: DC 17 (a creature makes this save only once per turn, and the djinni is
unaffected).
Failure: While in the whirlwind, the target has the Restrained
condition and moves with the whirlwind. At the start of each of its turns, the
Restrained target takes 21 (6d6) Thunder damage. At the end of each of its
turns, the target repeats the save, ending the effect on itself on a success.
Spellcasting. The djinni casts one of the following spells, requiring no Material
components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17):
At Will:
Detect Evil and Good,
Detect Magic
2/Day Each:
Create Food and Water (can create wine instead of water),
Tongues,
Wind Walk
1/Day Each:
Creation,
Gaseous Form,
Invisibility,
Major Image,
Plane Shift
ARTIST: SEAN MURRAY
DOPPELGANGER
AC 14 	Initiative +4 (14)
HP 52 (8d8 + 16)
Speed 30 ft.	Medium Monstrosity, Neutral

-- 13 of 23 --

Dracolich
Draconic Tyrant Reborn
Habitat: Any; Treasure: Any
The vilest dragons seek to escape the grip of death, employing ageless secrets and blasphemous magic to become horrors called dracoliches. These
deathless dragons bind their spirits to gems and magically animate their rotting corpses. Eventually becoming skeletal horrors, dracoliches continue the
centuries-spanning plots they pursued in life, seek revenge on those that brought them low, and strive toward vicious goals they couldn’t indulge in life.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	11 	+0 	+0
DEX 	18 	+4 	+4
CON 	14 	+2 	+2
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	11 	+0 	+0
WIS 	12 	+1 	+1
CHA 	14 	+2 	+2
Skills Deception +6, Insight +3
Immunities Charmed
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 11
Languages Common plus three other languages
CR 3 (XP 700; PB +2)
Actions
Multiattack. The doppelganger makes two Slam attacks and uses Unsettling
Visage if available.
Slam. Melee Attack Roll: +6 (with Advantage during the first round of each
combat), reach 5 ft.
Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) Bludgeoning damage.
Read Thoughts. The doppelganger casts
Detect Thoughts, requiring no spell
components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 12).
Unsettling Visage (Recharge 6). Wisdom Saving Throw: DC 12, each creature
in a 15-foot Emanation originating from the doppelganger that can see the
doppelganger.
Failure: The target has the Frightened condition and repeats the
save at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
After 1 minute, it succeeds automatically.
Bonus Actions
Shape-Shift. The doppelganger shape-shifts into a Medium or Small
Humanoid, or it returns to its true form. Its game statistics, other than its
size, are the same in each form. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying
isn’t transformed.
Meeting yourself is the surest way to realize you’re not as
charming as you think you are.
—SOMEONE CLAIMING TO BE
LORHIRIN OF FEARCHOR KEEP
ARTIST: SLAWOMIR MANIAK

-- 14 of 23 --

Dracoliches combine the corrupt immortality of the undead with the legendary power of dragons. A dracolich retains a breath weapon, but it is a chilling
necrotic blast. These terrors gradually sicken the land near their lairs and attract sinister followers—usually other undead or cultists seeking to revel in their
terrible might. Living dragons of all types loathe and seek to destroy dracoliches, viewing them as distortions of draconic magic.
There are untold profane routes by which a dragon might become a dracolich. However one is created, a dracolich chooses a gem that becomes the anchor
for its spirit and binds the deathless dragon to the world. So long as a dracolich is on the same plane of existence as its soul gem, the dracolich can survive
the destruction of its physical body. Its spirit retreats into the gem if the dracolich’s body is destroyed, and the monster might one day regain its terrifying
form. Dracoliches often sequester their soul gems within meaningful treasure from their hoard or in unassuming baubles. Roll on or choose a result from
the Dracolich Soul Gem Vessels table to inspire what holds a dracolich’s soul gem.
Dracolich Soul Gem Vessels
1d10 	A Dracolich’s Soul Gem Is Hidden In...
1 	Another dragon’s treasure hoard.
2 	The body of a servant or an ancestor.
3 	The core of a dracolich’s melted hoard.
4 	A corrupted dragon egg.
5 	A dragon horn a hero took as a trophy.
6 	A nation’s royal or religious treasure.
7 	A powerful magic item.
8 	A source of magical wonders, such as a giant tree or mystical pool.
9 	The vault of an archdevil, a wicked god, or another extraplanar villain.
10 	The weapon that slew the dracolich.
Dracolich Lairs
A dracolich lurks in a corrupted version of the lair it had in life. The region containing a dracolich’s lair is warped by its presence, creating the following
effects:
Sapping Mist. The area within 1 mile of the lair is Lightly Obscured by pale fog. Whenever a creature other than the dracolich or one of its allies finishes a
Long Rest in that area, it must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or gain 1 Exhaustion level.
Soul Drain. Creatures within 1 mile of the lair have Disadvantage on Death Saving Throws.
If the dracolich is destroyed or moves its lair elsewhere, these effects end immediately. The effects resume if the dracolich gains a new body (see its Soul
Gem trait).
DRACOLICH
AC 20 	Initiative +12 (22)
HP 225 (18d12 + 108)
Speed 40 ft., Burrow 30 ft., Fly 80 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	25 	+7 	+7
DEX 	10 	+0 	+6
CON 	23 	+6 	+6
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	19 	+4 	+4
WIS 	15 	+2 	+8
CHA 	21 	+5 	+5
Skills Perception +14, Stealth +6
Immunities Necrotic, Poison; Charmed, Exhaustion, Frightened,
Paralyzed, Poisoned
Senses Blindsight 60 ft., Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 24
Languages Common, Draconic
CR 17 (XP 18,000, or 20,000 in lair; PB +6)
Traits
Legendary Resistance (3/Day, or 4/Day in Lair). If the dracolich fails a saving
throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
Huge or Gargantuan Undead, Lawful Evil

-- 15 of 23 --

Dragon Turtle
Ancient Ruler of Undersea Realms
Habitat: Coastal, Underwater; Treasure: Any
Life Suppression. Creatures within 60 feet of the dracolich can’t regain
Hit Points.
Magic Resistance. The dracolich has Advantage on saving throws against
spells and other magical effects.
Soul Gem. The dracolich has a magical gem. If the dracolich is destroyed while
the gem is on the same plane of existence as it, the dracolich gains a new
body in 1d20 days, regaining all its Hit Points and appearing within 5 feet of
the gem.
The gem is a Tiny object that has AC 20; HP 50; and Immunity to Necrotic,
Poison, and Psychic damage. The gem regains all its Hit Points at the end of
every turn, but it turns to dust if reduced to 0 Hit Points. If the gem is
destroyed, the dracolich can create a new one by completing an 8-hour
ritual using a gem worth 1,000+ GP and by expending 5,000 GP, which the
ritual consumes.
Actions
Multiattack. The dracolich makes three Rend attacks. It can replace one attack
with a use of Spellcasting to cast
Ray of Sickness (level 2 version).
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +13, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 18 (2d10 + 7) Slashing damage
plus 4 (1d8) Necrotic damage.
Necrotic Breath (Recharge 5–6). Constitution Saving Throw: DC 20, each
creature in a 60-foot Cone.
Failure: 52 (8d12) Necrotic damage.
Success:
Half damage.
Spellcasting. The dracolich casts one of the following spells, requiring no
Material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell
save DC 19, +11 to hit with spell attacks):
At Will:
Detect Magic,
Ray of Sickness (level 2 version)
1/Day Each:
Create Undead (level 8 version),
Finger of Death
Legendary Actions
Legendary Action Uses: 3 (4 in Lair). Immediately after another creature’s turn,
the dracolich can expend a use to take one of the following actions. The
dracolich regains all expended uses at the start of each of its turns.
Pounce. The dracolich moves up to half its Speed, and it makes one
Rend attack.
Sickening Ray. The dracolich uses Spellcasting to cast
Ray of Sickness (level
2 version). The dracolich can’t take this action again until the start of its
next turn.
Terrifying Presence. Wisdom Saving Throw: DC 19, each creature in a 30-foot
Emanation originating from the dracolich.
Failure: 11 (2d10) Psychic damage,
and the target has the Frightened condition until the end of its next turn.
Failure or Success: The dracolich can’t take this action again until the start of
its next turn.
And naught will be left save shattered thrones with no rulers.
But the dead dragons shall rule the world entire...
—SAMMASTER THE FALLEN’S TRANSLATION
OF
THE CHRONICLE OF YEARS TO COME
ARTIST: YIGIT KOROGLU

-- 16 of 23 --

Dragon turtles are mighty creatures with shells large enough to be mistaken for islands and jaws capable of snapping ships like twigs. While some of these
aquatic dragons contentedly slumber in the depths, others jealously guard vast territories with their scalding breath and lay claim to anything that sinks
into the depths or sails on the waves. Occasionally these dragons agree to aid pirates, aquatic peoples, or oceanic religions in return for contributions to
their sunken treasure hoards.
Many dragon turtles live in secluded lairs or ruins deep underwater, and they might not be spotted by surface dwellers for generations. Like both their
namesakes, dragon turtles can have exceptionally long lives. Some recall the wonders of ages past or remarkable individuals that passed through their
realms long ago. Such dragon turtles might be convinced to share their tales or provide guidance through their territories in exchange for treasures they’ve
never glimpsed on the ocean floor.
Dretches
Demons of Frenzy and Vulgarity
DRAGON TURTLE
AC 20 	Initiative +6 (16)
HP 356 (23d20 + 115)
Speed 20 ft., Swim 50 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	25 	+7 	+7
DEX 	10 	+0 	+0
CON 	20 	+5 	+11
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	10 	+0 	+0
WIS 	12 	+1 	+7
CHA 	12 	+1 	+1
Resistances Fire
Senses Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 11
Languages Draconic, Primordial (Aquan)
CR 17 (XP 18,000; PB +6)
Traits
Amphibious. The dragon can breathe air and water.
Actions
Multiattack. The dragon makes three Bite attacks. It can replace one attack
with a Tail attack.
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +13, reach 15 ft.
Hit: 23 (3d10 + 7) Piercing damage
plus 7 (2d6) Fire damage. Being underwater doesn’t grant Resistance to this
Fire damage.
Tail. Melee Attack Roll: +13, reach 15 ft.
Hit: 18 (2d10 + 7) Bludgeoning
damage. If the target is a Huge or smaller creature, it has the Prone condition.
Steam Breath (Recharge 5–6). Constitution Saving Throw: DC 19, each
creature in a 60-foot Cone.
Failure: 56 (16d6) Fire damage.
Success: Half
damage.
Failure or Success: Being underwater doesn’t grant Resistance to this
Fire damage.
Gargantuan Dragon, Neutral

-- 17 of 23 --

Habitat: Planar (Abyss); Treasure: None
The servants and victims of greater demons, dretches embody petty instincts,
chaotic impulses, and violent urges. Dretches exist in unfathomable numbers in
the depths of the Abyss, where their reeking throngs fill vast demonic hordes.
Dretch
Lone dretches serve other demons or evil magic-users. They are erratic, filthy, and
violent, and they demonstrate little sense of self-preservation.
Swarm of Dretches
Swarms of dretches sometimes escape the Abyss onto other planes of existence, or they might be part of a demonic invasion. Without direction, these
crude demons rampage and despoil with cruel enthusiasm.
Ah, the infinite wonders of the Abyss. If there’s anything
you don’t like, you’ll find it here.
—JARANDA, EXPERT ON THE ABYSS
ARTIST: MATHIAS KOLLROS
DRETCH
AC 11 	Initiative +0 (10)
HP 18 (4d6 + 4)
Speed 20 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	12 	+1 	+1
DEX 	11 	+0 	+0
CON 	12 	+1 	+1
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	5 	−3 	−3
WIS 	8 	−1 	−1
CHA 	3 	−4 	−4
Resistances Cold, Fire, Lightning
Immunities Poison; Poisoned
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 9
Languages Abyssal; telepathy 60 ft. (works only with creatures that
understand Abyssal)
CR 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)
Actions
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +3, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 4 (1d6 + 1) Slashing damage.
Fetid Cloud (1/Day). Constitution Saving Throw: DC 11, each creature in a 10-
foot Emanation originating from the dretch.
Failure: The target has the
Poisoned condition until the end of its next turn. While Poisoned, the creature
can take either an action or a Bonus Action on its turn, not both, and it can’t
take Reactions.
Small Fiend (Demon), Chaotic Evil
SWARM OF DRETCHES
AC 12 	Initiative +0 (10)
HP 45 (6d10 + 12)
Speed 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	14 	+2 	+2
DEX 	11 	+0 	+0
CON 	14 	+2 	+2
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	5 	−3 	−3
WIS 	8 	−1 	−1
CHA 	3 	−4 	−4
Resistances Bludgeoning, Cold, Fire, Lightning, Piercing, Slashing
Immunities Poison; Charmed, Frightened, Grappled, Paralyzed, Petrified,
Poisoned, Prone, Restrained, Stunned
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 9
Languages Abyssal; telepathy 60 ft. (works only with creatures that
understand Abyssal)
CR 4 (1,100 XP; PB +2)
Traits
Fetid Aura. Constitution Saving Throw: DC 12, any creature that starts its turn
in a 10-foot Emanation originating from the swarm.
Failure: The target has the
Poisoned condition until the start of its next turn. While Poisoned, the target
can take either an action or a Bonus Action on its turn, not both, and it can’t
take Reactions.
Large Swarm of Small Fiends (Demon), Chaotic Evil

-- 18 of 23 --

Drider
Spiderlike Underdark Hunter
Habitat: Forest, Underdark; Treasure: Armaments
Driders combine the features of drow and giant spiders. The wicked
god Lolth is fond of transforming her drow worshipers into driders, as
either a blessing or a curse. These driders often become fanatical
servants of their god, or they are overwhelmed by their transformation
and live only to indulge their predatory arachnid instincts.
Driders also appear when whole communities are transformed by a
wicked god’s wrath or other magical means, or driders might be part of
a world’s natural population. Most dwell underground or in dense
forests where they can make the most of their spiderlike traits. Driders
with non-drow features are uncommon but possible. Roll on or choose
a result from the Drider Metamorphoses table to inspire how
supernatural driders come into being.
Drider Metamorphoses
1d6 	The Drider Gained Its Form As...
1 	A blessing from a deity of assassins, dangerous wildernesses, or the Underdark.
2 	A curse from a powerful hag, vengeful witch, or strange Artifact.
3 	An experiment by an aboleth, a mind flayer, or another life-shaping magic-user.
4 	A magical means of escaping disaster or some worse fate.
5 	A mutation after exposure to chaotic planar energies or strange Underdark radiations.
6 	A punishment from a spiteful god, like Lolth or the Queen of Air and Darkness.
Swarm. The swarm can occupy another creature’s space and vice versa, and
the swarm can move through any opening large enough for a Small creature.
The swarm can’t regain Hit Points or gain Temporary Hit Points.
Actions
Multiattack. The swarm makes two Rend attacks.
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 12 (3d6 + 2) Slashing damage, or 9
(3d4 + 2) Slashing damage if the swarm is Bloodied.
ARTIST: MICHAEL BROUSSARD
DRIDER
AC 19 	Initiative +4 (14)
HP 123 (13d10 + 52)
Speed 30 ft., Climb 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	16 	+3 	+3
DEX 	19 	+4 	+4
CON 	18 	+4 	+4
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	13 	+1 	+1
WIS 	16 	+3 	+3
CHA 	12 	+1 	+1
Skills Perception +6, Stealth +10
Large Monstrosity, Chaotic Evil

-- 19 of 23 --

Druid
Steward and Sage of Nature
Habitat: Any; Treasure: Individual, Relics
Druids use primal magic, traditional teachings, and bonds with animals and eldritch beings to guard the natural world and heal its ills. These magic-users
might be recluses devoted to a particular land, or they might be part of a mystic organization. Roll on or choose a result from the Druidic Traditions table to
inspire a druid’s magical practices.
Druid Traditions
1d6 	The Druid Is...
1 	An avenger who strikes against destructive civilizations and those who abuse nature.
2 	A guide who aids travelers in navigating the realms of Beasts, Fey, or Plants.
3 	A hermit who works alone to protect the lands, seas, or skies they call home.
4 	A mender who travels the world healing natural, magical, or manufactured disasters.
Senses Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 16
Languages Elvish, Undercommon
CR 6 (XP 2,300; PB +3)
Traits
Spider Climb. The drider can climb difficult surfaces, including along ceilings,
without needing to make an ability check.
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the drider has Disadvantage on ability
checks and attack rolls.
Web Walker. The drider ignores movement restrictions caused by webs,
and the drider knows the location of any other creature in contact with the
same web.
Actions
Multiattack. The drider makes three attacks, using Foreleg or Poison Burst in
any combination.
Foreleg. Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) Piercing damage.
Poison Burst. Ranged Attack Roll: +6, range 120 ft.
Hit: 13 (3d6 + 3)
Poison damage.
Bonus Actions
Magic of the Spider Queen (Recharge 5–6). The drider casts
Darkness,
Faerie
Fire, or
Web, requiring no Material components and using Wisdom as the
spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14).
ARTIST: CYNTHIA SHEPPARD

-- 20 of 23 --

1d6 	The Druid Is...
5 	Part of a loose organization that adheres to timeless rituals and guards natural secrets.
6 	A warden who minds the underpinnings of reality and protects against extraplanar threats.
Dryad
Tree-Bound Guardian of Nature
Habitat: Forest; Treasure: Any
DRUID
AC 13 	Initiative +1 (11)
HP 44 (8d8 + 8)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	10 	+0 	+0
DEX 	12 	+1 	+1
CON 	13 	+1 	+1
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	12 	+1 	+1
WIS 	16 	+3 	+3
CHA 	11 	+0 	+0
Skills Medicine +5, Nature +3, Perception +5
Gear Studded Leather Armor
Senses Passive Perception 15
Languages Common, Druidic, Sylvan
CR 2 (XP 450; PB +2)
Actions
Multiattack. The druid makes two attacks, using Vine Staff or Verdant Wisp in
any combination.
Vine Staff. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) Bludgeoning
damage plus 2 (1d4) Poison damage.
Verdant Wisp. Ranged Attack Roll: +5, range 90 ft.
Hit: 10 (3d6)
Radiant damage.
Spellcasting. The druid casts one of the following spells, using Wisdom as the
spellcasting ability (spell save DC 13):
At Will:
Druidcraft,
Speak with Animals
2/Day Each:
Entangle,
Thunderwave
1/Day Each:
Animal Messenger,
Longstrider,
Moonbeam
Medium or Small Humanoid, Neutral
ARTIST: DARIO JELUSIC

-- 21 of 23 --

Our Terms of Service and Privacy Notice have recently been updated to provide greater clarity as to how disputes are handled and transparency
regarding the collection and use of personal data. Please review them here: Terms of Service, Privacy Notice. By continuing to use the services, you
agree to the new Terms.
Guardians of the woodlands, dryads magically flit from tree to tree and from root
to bough, harrying trespassers with tangling vines and thorns. Most of these
elusive beings have a special connection with one plant or a natural sanctuary
that they protect. Some also share physical similarities with the plants they’re
most connected to. Dryads might sicken or die if their plant or sanctuary is
destroyed, recovering only if it is healed or magically replaced. Roll on or choose
an option from the Dryad Sanctuaries table to inspire a dryad’s bond.
Dryad Sanctuaries
1d6 	The Dryad Dwells in and Protects...
1 An acres-large clonal colony—a stand of identical, interconnected
trees.
2 	A fortresslike tree, like a baobab or sequoia.
3 A living lock—a plant that seals evil below or blocks the path to a
dungeon.
4 A lonely tree that stands atop a windswept mountain or amid a
petrified forest.
5 	A plant with magic fruit or remarkable seeds.
6 A shambling mound or treant that the dryad lives in or around as a
Fey symbiote.
DRYAD
AC 16 	Initiative +1 (11)
HP 22 (5d8)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	10 	+0 	+0
DEX 	12 	+1 	+1
CON 	11 	+0 	+0
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	14 	+2 	+2
WIS 	15 	+2 	+2
CHA 	18 	+4 	+4
Skills Perception +4, Stealth +5
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 14
Languages Elvish, Sylvan
CR 1 (XP 200; PB +2)
Traits
Magic Resistance. The dryad has Advantage on saving throws against spells
and other magical effects.
Speak with Beasts and Plants. The dryad can communicate with Beasts and
Plants as if they shared a language.
Actions
Multiattack. The dryad makes one Vine Lash or Thorn Burst attack, and it can
use Spellcasting to cast
Charm Monster.
Vine Lash. Melee Attack Roll: +6, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) Slashing damage.
Thorn Burst. Ranged Attack Roll: +6, range 60 ft.
Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4)
Piercing damage.
Spellcasting. The dryad casts one of the following spells, requiring no Material
components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14):
At Will:
Animal Friendship,
Charm Monster (lasts 24 hours; ends early if the
dryad casts the spell again),
Druidcraft
1/Day Each:
Entangle,
Pass without Trace
Bonus Actions
Tree Stride. If within 5 feet of a Large or bigger tree, the dryad teleports to an
unoccupied space within 5 feet of a second Large or bigger tree that is within
60 feet of the previous tree.
Medium Fey, Neutral

-- 22 of 23 --

SUPPORT
Help Portal
Support Forum
System Status
Do Not Sell or Share
My Personal
Information
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Notice
System Reference
Document (SRD)
ABOUT
Contact Us
Careers
Wizards of the
Coast
FIND US ON SOCIAL
MEDIA
DOWNLOAD THE D&D BEYOND
APP
© 2017-2026 WIZARDS OF THE COAST LLC | ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
Dungeons & Dragons, D&D Beyond, D&D, Wizards of the Coast, the dragon ampersand, and all other Wizards of the Coast
product names, campaign settings, their respective logos, and The World's Greatest Roleplaying Game are © and trademark
Wizards of the Coast in the U.S.A. and other countries. © 2026 Wizards.
PRIVACY POLICY 	TERMS OF SERVICE

-- 23 of 23 --

=== Monsters (E) - Monster Manual - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond.pdf ===
MONSTERS (D) 	MONSTERS (F)
Monsters (E)
Earth Elemental
Primal Spirit of Soil and Stone
Habitat: Mountain, Planar (Elemental Plane of Earth), Underdark; Treasure: None
Primal spirits from the Elemental Plane of Earth merge with rocks and minerals to form earth elementals. These beings possess powerful limbs and coarse
features, sometimes studded with ore, gems, crystals, colorful striations, or living plants. On the Material Plane, earth elementals often serve those who
conjure them, or they appear in regions influenced by their home plane, such as crystalline nodes, energetic fault lines, or veins of magical ore. Earth
elementals effortlessly move through stone and can bring ruin to whole structures with their mighty fists.
Earth elementals are typically made of more than dirt. While an elemental’s composition doesn’t change its statistics or have monetary value, it makes each
elemental distinct. Roll on or choose a result from the Earth Elemental Compositions table to inspire an earth elemental’s features.
Earth Elemental Compositions
1d8 	The Earth Elemental’s Body Features...
1 	Colorful mineral formations.
2 	Cooled magma in melted heaps.
3 	Grass, moss, or plant roots.
4 	Heaps of peat or decaying matter.
5 	Mounds of sand studded with shells.
6 	Rubble or pieces of a ruined structure.
7 	Striking striations or bands of color.
8 	Veins of iron or other ore.
ARTIST: CHRIS COLD

-- 1 of 12 --

Efreeti
Genie of Fire
Habitat: Desert, Planar (Elemental Plane of Fire); Treasure: Armaments
Efreet burn with the energy and unpredictability of fire. Their innate magic allows them to conjure flames from nothing and shape treasures within magical
infernos. Many efreet have wicked reputations, as their fickle natures and love for dramatic conflagrations can be destructive. Other efreet delight in fire’s
The foundations of our homes, the strength of our weapons,
the vaults of our greatest secrets—earth is nothing less than the
grip of reality itself. It is the mightiest element. This cannot be
denied.
—KABRIL THE PERFECT COMPASS, RULER OF DAO
EARTH ELEMENTAL
AC 17 	Initiative −1 (9)
HP 147 (14d10 + 70)
Speed 30 ft., Burrow 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	20 	+5 	+5
DEX 	8 	−1 	−1
CON 	20 	+5 	+5
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	5 	−3 	−3
WIS 	10 	+0 	+0
CHA 	5 	−3 	−3
Vulnerabilities Thunder
Immunities Poison; Exhaustion, Paralyzed, Petrified, Poisoned, Unconscious
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Tremorsense 60 ft.; Passive Perception 10
Languages Primordial (Terran)
CR 5 (XP 1,800; PB +3)
Traits
Earth Glide. The elemental can burrow through nonmagical, unworked earth
and stone. While doing so, the elemental doesn’t disturb the material it
moves through.
Siege Monster. The elemental deals double damage to objects and structures.
Actions
Multiattack. The elemental makes two attacks, using Slam or Rock Launch in
any combination.
Slam. Melee Attack Roll: +8, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) Bludgeoning damage.
Rock Launch. Ranged Attack Roll: +8, range 60 ft.
Hit: 8 (1d6 + 5) Bludgeoning
damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it has the Prone condition.
Large Elemental, Neutral
ARTIST: MICHAEL BROUSSARD

-- 2 of 12 --

beauty, be it the delicacy of a candle flame or the shared wonder of fireworks. These genies might aid mortals in exchange for treasures or the liberation of
captive Elementals.
On many worlds, efreet dwell in sweltering deserts and volcanic regions. Those that make their homes on the Elemental Plane of Fire create incredible
cities among seas of flame and molten minerals. Eclipsing all of these is the storied City of Brass, a gleaming metropolis that is one of the most wondrous
cities in the multiverse. Here, magic tempers the plane’s extreme heat, making the City of Brass a hub of trade between planes of existence.
Elemental Cataclysm
The End and Beginning of Ages
Habitat: Planar (Elemental Chaos); Treasure: None
Imagine seas of platinum and liquid flame, the Crimson Pillar
with fires hot enough to sear the gods, and the infinite delights
of the City of Brass. Now imagine what my master offers...
—VEYISVEXVAYN, MAGMA MEPHIT HERALD
EFREETI
AC 17 	Initiative +1 (11)
HP 212 (17d10 + 119)
Speed 40 ft., Fly 60 ft. (hover)
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	22 	+6 	+6
DEX 	12 	+1 	+1
CON 	24 	+7 	+7
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	16 	+3 	+3
WIS 	15 	+2 	+6
CHA 	19 	+4 	+8
Immunities Fire
Senses Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 12
Languages Primordial (Ignan)
CR 11 (XP 7,200; PB +4)
Traits
Elemental Restoration. If the efreeti dies outside the Elemental Plane of Fire,
its body dissolves into ash, and it gains a new body in 1d4 days, reviving with
all its Hit Points somewhere on the Plane of Fire.
Magic Resistance. The efreeti has Advantage on saving throws against spells
and other magical effects.
Wishes. The efreeti has a 30 percent chance of knowing the
Wish spell. If the
efreeti knows it, the efreeti can cast it only on behalf of a non-genie creature
who communicates a wish in a way the efreeti can understand. If the efreeti
casts the spell for the creature, the efreeti suffers none of the spell’s stress.
Once the efreeti has cast it three times, the efreeti can’t do so again for
365 days.
Actions
Multiattack. The efreeti makes three attacks, using Heated Blade or Hurl
Flame in any combination.
Heated Blade. Melee Attack Roll: +10, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 13 (2d6 + 6) Slashing
damage plus 13 (2d12) Fire damage.
Hurl Flame. Ranged Attack Roll: +8, range 120 ft.
Hit: 24 (7d6) Fire damage.
Spellcasting. The efreeti casts one of the following spells, requiring no
Material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell
save DC 16):
At Will:
Detect Magic,
Elementalism
1/Day Each:
Gaseous Form,
Invisibility,
Major Image,
Plane Shift,
Tongues,
Wall of Fire (level 7 version)
Large Elemental (Genie), Neutral
ARTIST: JOHAN GRENIER

-- 3 of 12 --

Beyond the fringes of the Elemental Planes, primordial forces endlessly clash amid the Elemental Chaos. Within the vastness and violence of this realm
rage elemental cataclysms, entities spawned from the raw forces of the multiverse and awash in dissonant elemental powers. These beings of primal
conflict annihilate nearly all they encounter and seed the ruins left in their wake with the potential for new creations.
Elemental cataclysms rarely escape the Elemental Chaos. When they do, it is typically due to some planar disruption or the summons of nihilistic cultists.
When they emerge on Material Plane worlds, elemental cataclysms create realm-altering trails of destruction, carelessly destroying cities and throwing
whole nations into chaos. The rampages aren’t random. Elemental cataclysms abhor anything that visibly mars nature, be it mines or monuments,
fortresses or cities, but they vent their most intense rage on works of metal and clockwork. As they sow destruction, they howl condemnation and chant
words of unmaking in the languages of the Inner Planes.
Little can stop an elemental cataclysm. Those that oppose one of these calamities often attempt to reverse the ritual that summoned it, coax it through a
planar rift, or conjure another titan in hopes that the two destroy one another. These terrors leave a wake of ashes, floods, storms, and broken earth. But
after these disasters recede, the land is imbued with new life or environmental changes. Roll on or choose a result from the Elemental Alterations table to
inspire what changes emerge after an elemental cataclysm’s destruction.
Elemental Alterations
1d8 	The Elemental Cataclysm Leaves Behind A...
1 	Dramatic increase or decrease in temperature.
2 	Gigantic coral reef or fungal forest.
3 	Never-ending storm or whirlpool.
4 	Passage to the Underdark or portal to an Elemental Plane.
5 	Primeval or previously extinct animal population.
6 	Rapidly growing rainforest.
7 	River where previously there was none.
8 	Series of dramatic rock formations.
ARTIST: TITUS LUNTER

-- 4 of 12 --

Empyreans
Scions of the Gods
ELEMENTAL CATACLYSM
AC 20 	Initiative +18 (28)
HP 370 (20d20 + 160)
Speed 60 ft., Burrow 60 ft., Fly 80 ft. (hover), Swim 80 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	26 	+8 	+8
DEX 	19 	+4 	+11
CON 	27 	+8 	+15
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	9 	−1 	−1
WIS 	14 	+2 	+9
CHA 	9 	−1 	+6
Immunities Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, Poison, Thunder; Blinded, Charmed,
Deafened, Exhaustion, Frightened, Grappled, Paralyzed, Petrified, Poisoned,
Prone, Restrained, Stunned, Unconscious
Senses Truesight 150 ft.; Passive Perception 12
Languages Primordial
CR 22 (XP 41,000; PB +7)
Traits
Earth Glide. The cataclysm can burrow through nonmagical, unworked earth
and stone. While doing so, the cataclysm doesn’t disturb the material it
moves through.
Legendary Resistance (4/Day). If the cataclysm fails a saving throw, it can
choose to succeed instead.
Siege Monster. The cataclysm deals double damage to objects and structures.
Actions
Multiattack. The cataclysm makes two Elemental Burst attacks.
Elemental Burst. Melee or Ranged Attack Roll: +15, reach 30 ft. or range 150 ft.
Hit: 25 (5d6 + 8) damage of a type chosen by the cataclysm: Acid, Cold, Fire,
Lightning, or Thunder.
Cataclysmic Event (Recharge 4–6). The cataclysm creates one of the
following effects at random (roll 1d4):
1. Clinging Flames.
Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 23, each creature in a 60-
foot-radius Sphere centered on a point the cataclysm can see within 150
feet.
Failure: 45 (13d6) Fire damage.
Success: Half damage.
Failure or
Success: The target starts burning.
2. Freezing Waves.
Strength Saving Throw: DC 23, each creature in a 90-
foot Cone.
Failure: 22 (5d8) Bludgeoning damage plus 22 (5d8) Cold
damage, and the target has the Prone condition.
Success: Half damage
only.
Failure or Success: The target’s Speed is reduced to 0 until the end
of its next turn.
3. Raging Storm. A storm cloud fills a 60-foot-radius Sphere centered on a
point the cataclysm can see within 150 feet. The cloud lasts for 1 minute
or until the cataclysm uses Cataclysmic Event again. Creatures entirely in
the cloud have the Blinded and Deafened conditions and can’t cast spells
with a Verbal component.
Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 23, each creature
that enters the cloud for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there.
Failure: 18 (4d8) Lightning damage plus 18 (4d8) Thunder damage.
Success: Half damage.
4. Swallowing Earth.
Strength Saving Throw: DC 23, each creature in a 90-
foot Cube originating from a point on the ground within 150 feet.
Failure:
18 (4d8) Bludgeoning damage plus 18 (4d8) Acid damage, and the target
has the Prone condition and is buried under rubble. A buried target has
the Restrained condition, has Total Cover, and is suffocating. As an
action, a buried creature or another creature within 5 feet of it can make a
DC 18 Strength (Athletics) check. On a successful check, the creature is
no longer buried.
Success: Half damage only.
Control Weather. The cataclysm casts the
Control Weather spell, requiring no
spell components and using Constitution as the spellcasting ability.
Legendary Actions
Legendary Action Uses: 3. Immediately after another creature’s turn, the
cataclysm can expend a use to take one of the following actions. The
cataclysm regains all expended uses at the start of each of its turns.
Eruption. The cataclysm makes one Elemental Burst attack.
Rumbling Movement. The cataclysm moves up to its Speed, Fly Speed, or
Swim Speed without provoking Opportunity Attacks. Each creature within 5
feet of the cataclysm as it moves is targeted once by the following effect.
Constitution Saving Throw: DC 23.
Failure: The target has the Prone condition.
Failure or Success: The cataclysm can’t take this action again until the start of
its next turn.
Gargantuan Elemental (Titan), Chaotic Neutral

-- 5 of 12 --

Habitat: Any; Treasure: Relics
Empyreans are the spawn of deities. While not gods themselves, they possess divine influence and powers related to their divine parents. Some empyreans
are near-demigods with fantastic might and the power to reshape mortal lives. Others are little more than divine thoughts or moments of immortal attention
made manifest. Whether empyreans are idealized beings or vestiges of divinity, their appearances are influenced by their creators. Roll on or choose a result
from the Empyrean Influences table to inspire what aspects of an empyrean’s heritage manifest in its physical form.
Empyrean Influences
1d6 	The Empyrean Has Features That Are...
1 	Balanced, naturalistic, or suggestive of watching eyes.
2 	Colorful, shadowy, or fluid or that vary depending on the viewer.
3 	Comforting and gentle or that remind viewers of pleasant memories.
4 	Disconnected parts, visible thoughts, or errant shapes.
5 	Machinelike, stoic, symmetrical, or suggestive of judgment.
6 	Morbid, menacing, or monstrous or that embody the viewer’s fears.
Empyrean Iota
Empyrean iotas are the thoughts, memories, or indirect attentions of deities personified and given a measure of autonomy. Resembling floating glyphs,
motes of color, icons of divinity, or stranger shapes, these beings are messengers of the gods and aides to those gods’ servants. Iotas have their own
knowledge and personalities, though they might know little more than the realms and wishes of their creators.
CELESTIAL AND FIENDISH EMPYREANS OBSERVE THE COSMOS ATTENDED BY SIGIL-LIKE EMPYREAN IOTAS
ARTIST: NÉSTOR OSSANDÓN LEAL
EMPYREAN IOTA
AC 13 	Initiative +2 (12)	Medium Celestial or Fiend (Titan), Neutral

-- 6 of 12 --

Empyrean
Inheritors of divine might, empyreans are idealized, human-shaped beings of godly power. These beings might have relationships with their creators akin to
those of parents and their children, royalty and their servants, inventors and their creations, or other bonds. Empyreans’ existences are fundamentally
influenced by their patrons and their connection to the heavenly deities of the Upper Planes or the fiendish deities of the Lower Planes. Nevertheless,
empyreans have free will.
Celestial empyreans are typically noble beings who quest to prove themselves worthy of their divine pedigree. Many work in the service of their parents or
support those gods’ causes and champions.
Fiendish empyreans are usually dreadful, self-serving villains who seek to claim their parents’ power. Some forge unholy armies or rule over hidden realms
in mockery of true gods, while others might seek to escape their accursed families.
HP 22 (5d8)
Speed 5 ft., Fly 30 ft. (hover)
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	1 	−5 	−5
DEX 	14 	+2 	+2
CON 	10 	+0 	+0
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	15 	+2 	+2
WIS 	16 	+3 	+3
CHA 	16 	+3 	+3
Skills History +4, Insight +5, Perception +5
Resistances Bludgeoning, Piercing, Slashing
Immunities Prone
Senses Truesight 30 ft.; Passive Perception 15
Languages All
CR 1 (XP 200; PB +2)
Traits
Incorporeal Movement. The empyrean can move through other creatures and
objects as if they were Difficult Terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) Force damage if it
ends its turn inside an object.
Magic Resistance. The empyrean has Advantage on saving throws against
spells and other magical effects.
Actions
Otherworldly Strike. Melee or Ranged Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft. or range 30 ft
.
Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) Necrotic or Radiant damage (empyrean’s choice).
Spellcasting. The empyrean casts one of the following spells, requiring no
Material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability:
1/Day Each:
Bless,
Lesser Restoration (as an action)
Bonus Actions
Healing Word (1/Day). The empyrean casts
Healing Word, using the same
spellcasting ability as Spellcasting.
One day I might be the god of storms—mind countless
followers, answer prayers, change whole worlds—but, until
then, I do what I please.
—KOPOHA, SCION OF STORMS
EMPYREAN
AC 22 	Initiative +19 (29)
HP 346 (21d12 + 210)
Speed 50 ft., Fly 50 ft. (hover), Swim 50 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	30 	+10 	+17
DEX 	21 	+5 	+5
CON 	30 	+10 	+10
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	21 	+5 	+5
WIS 	22 	+6 	+13
CHA 	27 	+8 	+8
Skills Insight +13, Perception +13
Resistances Bludgeoning, Piercing, Slashing
Immunities Necrotic, Radiant
Senses Truesight 120 ft.; Passive Perception 23
Languages All
CR 23 (XP 50,000; PB +7)
Traits
Legendary Resistance (4/Day). If the empyrean fails a saving throw, it can
choose to succeed instead.
Magic Resistance. The empyrean has Advantage on saving throws against
spells and other magical effects.
Actions
Multiattack. The empyrean makes two attacks, using Sacred Weapon or Divine
Ray in any combination.
Sacred Weapon. Melee Attack Roll: +17, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 31 (6d6 + 10) Force
damage, and the target has the Stunned condition until the start of the
empyrean’s next turn. The target can choose not to be Stunned, in which case it
takes an extra 21 Force damage that bypasses Resistance or Immunity.
Huge Celestial or Fiend (Titan), Neutral

-- 7 of 12 --

Erinyes
Devil of Vengeance and Righteous Wrath
Habitat: Planar (Nine Hells); Treasure: Armaments
Erinyes, also known as furies, are winged devils clad in fiendish armor. These fallen angels exact a merciless form of divine justice, hunting down oath
breakers and dragging the rightfully damned to the Nine Hells in the grip of their magical ropes. Few ever glimpse what lies within these devils’ armored
exteriors, and erinyes ensure that those who do can never speak of what they’ve seen.
Erinyes often serve archdevils and guard the order of the Nine Hells against trespassers and escapees. Although they’re prone to wrathful outbursts, erinyes
cooperate well with other devils. They sometimes hunt in trios with other erinyes, forging infamous reputations for themselves.
When not in the service of a diabolical master, erinyes hunt wicked souls. They pursue quarries relentlessly, across the multiverse and for ages if need be.
While they might be summoned to serve evil magic-users, erinyes also listen for oaths and curses sworn in their names. In rare cases, wronged mortals who
call out with just rage might be heard by an erinyes who appears to take vengeance on their behalf. Once erinyes are so summoned, they won’t leave
without claiming the soul of either their quarry or the mortal who summoned them.
Divine Ray. Ranged Attack Roll: +15, range 600 ft.
Hit: 35 (6d8 + 8) Necrotic or
Radiant damage (empyrean’s choice).
Spellcasting. The empyrean casts one of the following spells, requiring no
Material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell
save DC 23):
At Will:
Calm Emotions,
Greater Restoration,
Pass without Trace,
Water Breathing
1/Day Each:
Commune,
Dispel Evil and Good,
Plane Shift
Legendary Actions
Legendary Action Uses: 3. Immediately after another creature’s turn, the
empyrean can expend a use to take one of the following actions. The
empyrean regains all expended uses at the start of each of its turns.
Bolster. The empyrean gains 10 Temporary Hit Points, and the empyrean and
each ally within 30 feet of it gain Advantage on D20 Tests until the end of the
empyrean’s next turn. The empyrean can’t take this action again until the start
of its next turn.
Shockwave of Glory. Constitution Saving Throw: DC 23, each creature in a 30-
foot Emanation originating from the empyrean.
Failure: 27 (6d8) Force damage,
and the target has the Prone condition.
Success: Half damage only.
Failure
or Success: The empyrean can’t take this action again until the start of its
next turn.
Smite. The empyrean makes one Divine Ray attack.
ARTIST: JUSTIN GERARD

-- 8 of 12 --

Ettercap
Venomous Arachnid Abductor
Habitat: Forest; Treasure: Implements
ERINYES
AC 18 	Initiative +7 (17)
HP 178 (21d8 + 84)
Speed 30 ft., Fly 60 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	18 	+4 	+4
DEX 	16 	+3 	+7
CON 	18 	+4 	+8
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	14 	+2 	+2
WIS 	14 	+2 	+2
CHA 	18 	+4 	+8
Skills Perception +6, Persuasion +8
Resistances Cold
Immunities Fire, Poison; Poisoned
Senses Truesight 120 ft.; Passive Perception 16
Languages Infernal; telepathy 120 ft.
CR 12 (XP 8,400; PB +4)
Traits
Diabolical Restoration. If the erinyes dies outside the Nine Hells, its body
disappears in sulfurous smoke, and it gains a new body instantly, reviving with
all its Hit Points somewhere in the Nine Hells.
Magic Resistance. The erinyes has Advantage on saving throws against spells
and other magical effects.
Magic Rope. The erinyes has a magic rope. While bearing it, the erinyes can
use the Entangling Rope action. The rope has AC 20, HP 90, and Immunity to
Poison and Psychic damage. The rope turns to dust if reduced to 0 Hit Points,
if it is 5+ feet away from the erinyes for 1 hour or more, or if the erinyes dies. If
the rope is damaged or destroyed, the erinyes can fully restore it when
finishing a Short or Long Rest.
Actions
Multiattack. The erinyes makes three Withering Sword attacks and can use
Entangling Rope.
Withering Sword. Melee Attack Roll: +8, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) Slashing
damage plus 11 (2d10) Necrotic damage.
Entangling Rope (Requires Magic Rope). Strength Saving Throw: DC 16, one
creature the erinyes can see within 120 feet.
Failure: 14 (4d6) Force damage,
and the target has the Restrained condition until the rope is destroyed, the
erinyes uses a Bonus Action to release the target, or the erinyes uses
Entangling Rope again.
Reactions
Parry. Trigger: The erinyes is hit by a melee attack roll while holding a weapon.
Response: The erinyes adds 4 to its AC against that attack, possibly causing it
to miss.
Medium Fiend (Devil), Lawful Evil
ARTIST: SEAN MURRAY

-- 9 of 12 --

Spiderlike hunters, ettercaps lurk in forested depths and seek prey to drag into their web-choked lairs. These vicious predators have arachnid features and
hunched, bipedal frames, and they’re notorious for their venomous bites and ability to shoot out webs to entrap their victims. Ettercaps often hunt in small
groups alongside giant spiders and mundane spider swarms.
Ettercaps frequently overhunt their environment. Left unchecked, ettercaps might fill whole woodlands with their webs and the cocooned remains of past
meals, which puts ettercaps in conflict with Fey. Spiteful ettercaps go out of their way to torment and feed on Fey; they prefer to menace those smaller than
themselves, like pixies and sprites. They rarely devour other sapient creatures swiftly, preferring to cocoon their captives and terrorize them for days.
Ettercaps avoid fire, which can quickly burn through their webs and the dead trees where they make their homes.
Ettin
Quarrelsome Two-Headed Giant
Habitat: Hill, Mountain, Underdark; Treasure: Individual
ETTERCAP
AC 13 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 44 (8d8 + 8)
Speed 30 ft., Climb 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	14 	+2 	+2
DEX 	15 	+2 	+2
CON 	13 	+1 	+1
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	7 	−2 	−2
WIS 	12 	+1 	+1
CHA 	8 	−1 	−1
Skills Perception +3, Stealth +4, Survival +3
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 13
Languages None
CR 2 (XP 450; PB +2)
Traits
Spider Climb. The ettercap can climb difficult surfaces, including along
ceilings, without needing to make an ability check.
Web Walker. The ettercap ignores movement restrictions caused by webs,
and the ettercap knows the location of any other creature in contact with the
same web.
Actions
Multiattack. The ettercap makes one Bite attack and one Claw attack.
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) Piercing damage plus 2
(1d4) Poison damage, and the target has the Poisoned condition until the start
of the ettercap’s next turn.
Claw. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 7 (2d4 + 2) Slashing damage.
Web Strand (Recharge 5–6). Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 12, one Large or
smaller creature the ettercap can see within 30 feet.
Failure: The target has the
Restrained condition until the web is destroyed (AC 10; HP 5; Vulnerability to
Fire damage; Immunity to Bludgeoning, Poison, and Psychic damage).
Bonus Actions
Reel. The ettercap pulls one creature within 30 feet of itself that is Restrained
by its Web Strand up to 25 feet straight toward itself.
Medium Monstrosity, Neutral Evil
ARTIST: ROBSON MICHEL

-- 10 of 12 --

Ettins are physically powerful Giants with two heads. While many ettins have features similar to hill giants, others have more bestial or unusual traits, such
as tusks, short horns, or a single eye on each head.
Ettins frequently ally with other Giants or groups that value their strength, such as hill giants, bandits, or ogres. Some ettins possess mystical ties to the
lands they inhabit, and they might know or guard secrets valued by druids or Fey.
Each ettin head has a distinct personality. While this makes some ettins quarrelsome with themselves and others, many function as a team. An ettin head
might have its own name, or both heads might refer to themselves as a single being—either with one name or a portmanteau of two.
Roll on or choose a result from the Ettin Interactions table to inspire how an ettin’s heads are interacting when the creature is encountered.
Ettin Interactions
1d8 	The Ettin’s Heads Are...
1 	Amping up one another in preparation for a conflict or challenge.
2 	Arguing over plans for battle, dinner, or how to spend the day.
3 	Criticizing one another as they perform separate tasks.
4 	Engaged in a staring contest.
5 	Making polite small talk as if they were meeting for the first time.
6 	Performatively ignoring one another.
7 	Talking over an increasingly convoluted plot.
8 	Trying to keep one another awake.
ETTIN
AC 12 	Initiative −1 (9)
HP 85 (10d10 + 30)
Speed 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	21 	+5 	+5
DEX 	8 	−1 	−1
CON 	17 	+3 	+3
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	6 	−2 	−2
WIS 	10 	+0 	+0
CHA 	8 	−1 	−1
Large Giant, Chaotic Evil

-- 11 of 12 --

Our Terms of Service and Privacy Notice have recently been updated to provide greater clarity as to how disputes are handled and transparency
regarding the collection and use of personal data. Please review them here: Terms of Service, Privacy Notice. By continuing to use the services, you
agree to the new Terms.
SUPPORT
Help Portal
Support Forum
System Status
Do Not Sell or Share
My Personal
Information
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Notice
System Reference
Document (SRD)
ABOUT
Contact Us
Careers
Wizards of the
Coast
FIND US ON SOCIAL
MEDIA
DOWNLOAD THE D&D BEYOND
APP
© 2017-2026 WIZARDS OF THE COAST LLC | ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
Dungeons & Dragons, D&D Beyond, D&D, Wizards of the Coast, the dragon ampersand, and all other Wizards of the Coast
product names, campaign settings, their respective logos, and The World's Greatest Roleplaying Game are © and trademark
Wizards of the Coast in the U.S.A. and other countries. © 2026 Wizards.
PRIVACY POLICY 	TERMS OF SERVICE
Skills Perception +4
Immunities Blinded, Charmed, Deafened, Frightened, Stunned, Unconscious
Gear Battleaxe, Morningstar
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 14
Languages Giant
CR 4 (XP 1,100; PB +2)
Actions
Multiattack. The ettin makes one Battleaxe attack and one Morningstar attack.
Battleaxe. Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) Slashing damage.
If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it has the Prone condition.
Morningstar. Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) Piercing
damage, and the target has Disadvantage on the next attack roll it makes
before the end of its next turn.
Twice the malice, aggressiveness, and appetite—the ettin
demonstrates that two heads aren’t necessarily better than
one.
—BERTRAND, INQUISITOR OF THE MIND FIRE

-- 12 of 12 --

=== Monsters (F) - Monster Manual - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond.pdf ===
MONSTERS (E) 	MONSTERS (G)
Monsters (F)
Faerie Dragons
Whimsical Draconic Tricksters
Habitat: Forest; Treasure: Implements
Faerie dragons are cat-size pranksters with draconic features, butterfly-like wings, and scales
of warm hues as youths and cool hues as adults.
Faerie Dragon Adult
The pranks of faerie dragon adults tend to lead others to people in need or wrongs to be
righted.
Faerie Dragon Youth
Faerie dragon youths are quick to use their euphoria-inducing breath on rude or uptight folk.
ARTIST: JESPER EJSING
FAERIE DRAGON ADULT
AC 15 	Initiative +5 (15)
HP 35 (10d4 + 10)
Speed 10 ft., Fly 60 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	3 	−4 	−4
DEX 	20 	+5 	+5
CON 	13 	+1 	+1
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	14 	+2 	+2
WIS 	12 	+1 	+1
CHA 	16 	+3 	+3
Skills Arcana +4, Perception +3, Stealth +7
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 13
Languages Draconic, Sylvan; telepathy 60 ft. (faerie dragons only)
CR 2 (XP 450; PB +2)
Traits
Magic Resistance. The dragon has Advantage on saving throws against spells
and other magical effects.
Actions
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 7 (1d4 + 5) Piercing damage plus 3
(1d6) Psychic damage.
Euphoria Breath (Recharge 5–6). Wisdom Saving Throw: DC 13, each creature
in a 15-foot Cone.
Failure: The target has the Incapacitated condition and
repeats the save at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on
a success. After 1 minute, it succeeds automatically. While Incapacitated,
the target uses all its movement on each of its turns to move in a
random direction.
Spellcasting. The dragon casts one of the following spells, requiring no
Material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell
save DC 13):
At Will:
Dancing Lights,
Mage Hand,
Minor Illusion
1/Day Each:
Hallucinatory Terrain,
Polymorph
Bonus Actions
Superior Invisibility. The dragon casts
Greater Invisibility on itself, requiring no
spell components and using the same spellcasting ability as Spellcasting.
Tiny Dragon, Chaotic Good
FAERIE DRAGON YOUTH
AC 13 	Initiative +3 (13)
HP 21 (6d4 + 6)
Speed 10 ft., Fly 60 ft.
Tiny Dragon, Chaotic Good

-- 1 of 14 --

Fire Elemental
Primal Spirit of Heat and Flame
Habitat: Desert, Planar (Elemental Plane of Fire); Treasure: None
Fire elementals arise when spirits of the Elemental Plane of Fire inhabit flames, burning cinders, and heated smoke. These beings are tangible despite
largely being made of flames and particles, and they can uses their vague limbs to ignite foes and flammable materials. Fire elementals typically burn in
shades of orange and red, but other colors are possible. Most on the Material Plane are summoned by magical means, or they might appear near rifts amid
desert depths, volcanoes, wildfires, or magma flows that connect to their home plane.
Fire elementals might burn in distinctive ways. Roll on or choose a result from the Fire Elemental Compositions table to inspire a fire elemental’s features.
Fire Elemental Compositions
1d8 	The Fire Elemental’s Body Features...
1 	Colorful, superheated gases.
2 	A column of diabolical or divine flame.
3 Crackling shapes that look like animals, fiends, skeletons, sprites, or other
beings.
4 	Flames that are predominantly white, blue, or a more unusual color.
5 	The form of a calm or tormented humanoid.
6 	Smoke that forms eerie shapes or symbols.
7 	Soot that smells like cedar, cloves, incense, or burning meat.
8 	Swirls of cinders and burning debris.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	3 	−4 	−4
DEX 	16 	+3 	+3
CON 	12 	+1 	+1
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	12 	+1 	+1
WIS 	12 	+1 	+1
CHA 	14 	+2 	+2
Skills Arcana +3, Perception +3, Stealth +5
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 13
Languages Draconic, Sylvan; telepathy 60 ft. (faerie dragons only)
CR 1 (XP 200; PB +2)
Traits
Magic Resistance. The dragon has Advantage on saving throws against spells
and other magical effects.
Actions
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) Piercing damage plus 2
(1d4) Psychic damage.
Euphoria Breath (Recharge 5–6). Wisdom Saving Throw: DC 12, each creature
in a 15-foot Cone.
Failure: The target has the Incapacitated condition until
the end of its next turn and uses all its movement on its turn to move in a
random direction.
Spellcasting. The dragon casts one of the following spells, requiring no
Material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell
save DC 12):
At Will:
Dancing Lights,
Mage Hand,
Minor Illusion
Bonus Actions
Superior Invisibility. The dragon casts
Greater Invisibility on itself, requiring no
spell components and using the same spellcasting ability as Spellcasting.
All the elements bow to fire. The strongest earth melts. Water
boils. Even air ignites. We are all souls of flame, and we know
what it is to burn.
—MARRAKE THE INCANDESCENT, RULER OF EFREET
ARTIST: CHRIS COLD

-- 2 of 14 --

Fire Giant
Giant of the Smoldering Depths
Habitat: Mountain, Underdark; Treasure: Armaments
Fire giants inhabit the hollow vaults and molten rivers of mountainous depths. There, they use subterranean heat and riches to craft wonders, from titanic
weapons of war to delicate works of art.
Fire giants have broad frames, skin tones in a variety of rocklike shades, and hair like flame.
FIRE ELEMENTAL
AC 13 	Initiative +3 (13)
HP 93 (11d10 + 33)
Speed 50 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	10 	+0 	+0
DEX 	17 	+3 	+3
CON 	16 	+3 	+3
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	6 	−2 	−2
WIS 	10 	+0 	+0
CHA 	7 	−2 	−2
Resistances Bludgeoning, Piercing, Slashing
Immunities Fire, Poison; Exhaustion, Grappled, Paralyzed, Petrified, Poisoned,
Prone, Restrained, Unconscious
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 10
Languages Primordial (Ignan)
CR 5 (XP 1,800; PB +3)
Traits
Fire Aura. At the end of each of the elemental’s turns, each creature in a 10-
foot Emanation originating from the elemental takes 5 (1d10) Fire damage.
Creatures and flammable objects in the Emanation start burning.
Fire Form. The elemental can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch
without expending extra movement to do so, and it can enter a creature’s space
and stop there. The first time it enters a creature’s space on a turn, that
creature takes 5 (1d10) Fire damage.
Illumination. The elemental sheds Bright Light in a 30-foot radius and Dim
Light for an additional 30 feet.
Water Susceptibility. The elemental takes 3 (1d6) Cold damage for every 5 feet
the elemental moves in water or for every gallon of water splashed on it.
Actions
Multiattack. The elemental makes two Burn attacks.
Burn. Melee Attack Roll: +6, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) Fire damage. If the
target is a creature or a flammable object, it starts burning.
Large Elemental, Neutral
ARTIST: ROBSON MICHEL

-- 3 of 14 --

Most fire giants dwell in volcanically active mountains or cavernous depths that house their fortress-forges. Evil fire giants tend to be martially minded, and
they craft mighty arms to conquer their neighbors and seize valuable resources. More temperate fire giants trade their works for what they need, and they
might share the ancient techniques of Giant artisans with other craftspeople. In either case, fire giants are prone to undertaking ambitious designs, and they
rarely appreciate interruptions in their titanic workshops.
Flameskull
Skull Smoldering with Magical Obsession
Habitat: Underdark; Treasure: Arcana
Flameskulls are flying skulls that blaze with magical fire and the half-
remembered arcana of dead spellcasters. They rise from the remains of dead
magic-users who were reanimated by sinister necromancers or whose magical
pursuits drive them beyond death. Flameskulls might serve as guardians for their
creators or pursue ambitions left unfulfilled in life. They lash out at foes with
destructive spells and bursts of fire, wielding magic without the need for most
components.
Flameskulls take various forms, from skulls with humanlike features to ones with
fearsome or bestial alterations. Their flames vary in color and grow more intense
when they’re angry. Roll on or choose a result from the Flameskull Details table to
inspire what makes a flameskull distinctive.
Flameskull Details
1d6 	The Flameskull Features...
1 	Arcane diagrams etched into it.
2 	Flames like dramatic features, horns, or hair.
3 	Fractured pieces that fly in unison.
4 	An iron plate bolted over its mouth.
5 	Lethal head trauma.
FIRE GIANT
AC 18 	Initiative +3 (13)
HP 162 (13d12 + 78)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	25 	+7 	+7
DEX 	9 	−1 	+3
CON 	23 	+6 	+10
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	10 	+0 	+0
WIS 	14 	+2 	+2
CHA 	13 	+1 	+5
Skills Athletics +11, Perception +6
Immunities Fire
Senses Passive Perception 16
Languages Giant
CR 9 (XP 5,000; PB +4)
Actions
Multiattack. The giant makes two attacks, using Flame Sword or Hammer
Throw in any combination.
Flame Sword. Melee Attack Roll: +11, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 21 (4d6 + 7) Slashing
damage plus 10 (3d6) Fire damage.
Hammer Throw. Ranged Attack Roll: +11, range 60/240 ft.
Hit: 23 (3d10 + 7)
Bludgeoning damage plus 4 (1d8) Fire damage, and the target is pushed up to
15 feet straight away from the giant and has Disadvantage on the next attack
roll it makes before the end of its next turn.
Huge Giant, Lawful Evil
ARTIST: BRIAN VALENZUELA

-- 4 of 14 --

1d6 	The Flameskull Features...
6 	Mismatched animal teeth.
Flesh Golem
Dead Flesh Given New Life
Habitat: Any; Treasure: Arcana
Flesh golems are roughly human-shaped collections of body parts bound together by misused magic or strange science. They serve their reckless creators,
but many possess disjointed memories and instincts from their component parts. If wounded, these golems might go berserk and vent their confusion on
anything in their sight, including their creators.
Flesh golems appear in varied forms. Roll on or choose a result from the Flesh Golem Characteristics table to inspire a flesh golem’s features.
I never cared for warmth. I never needed a body. My will is
enough, and my work will be the legacy that makes my every
sacrifice worthwhile!
—TRENZIA, UNDERMOUNTAIN FLAMESKULL
FLAMESKULL
AC 13 	Initiative +3 (13)
HP 40 (9d4 + 18)
Speed 5 ft., Fly 40 ft. (hover)
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	1 	−5 	−5
DEX 	17 	+3 	+3
CON 	14 	+2 	+2
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	16 	+3 	+3
WIS 	10 	+0 	+0
CHA 	11 	+0 	+0
Skills Arcana +5, Perception +2
Immunities Fire, Necrotic, Poison; Charmed, Exhaustion, Frightened,
Paralyzed, Poisoned, Prone
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 12
Languages Common plus two other languages
CR 4 (XP 1,100; PB +2)
Traits
Illumination. The flameskull sheds Bright Light in a 15-foot radius and Dim
Light for an additional 15 feet.
Magic Resistance. The flameskull has Advantage on saving throws against
spells and other magical effects.
Undead Restoration. If the flameskull is destroyed, it regains all its Hit Points
in 1 hour unless Holy Water is sprinkled on its remains or the
Dispel Evil and
Good spell is cast on them.
Actions
Multiattack. The flameskull makes two Fire Ray attacks.
Fire Ray. Melee or Ranged Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft. or range 60 ft.
Hit: 13
(3d6 + 3) Fire damage.
Spellcasting. The flameskull casts one of the following spells, requiring no
Somatic or Material components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting
ability (spell save DC 13):
At Will:
Mage Hand
2/Day:
Magic Missile (level 2 version)
1/Day:
Fireball
Tiny Undead, Neutral Evil
The barrier between the mortal and the divine lies shattered—
open is the mold for new gods. It was I who invaded the divine.
Not with a spear but with a stitch. Not with my heresies but
with my heart.
—VIKTRA MORDENHEIM, DARKLORD OF LAMORDIA
ARTIST: BJORN HURRI

-- 5 of 14 --

Flesh Golem Characteristics
1d6 	The Flesh Golem Has...
1 	Animal parts among its humanlike pieces.
2 	A disguise of makeup and heavy clothing.
3 	Missing parts and exposed insides.
4 Parts serving unintended roles, like a body composed of dozens
of hands.
5 	Perfect features accented by beautiful stitching.
6 	Visible mechanisms, bellows, and engines.
Flumph
Strange Ally from a Strange Place
Habitat: Underdark; Treasure: Arcana
FLESH GOLEM
AC 9 	Initiative −1 (9)
HP 127 (15d8 + 60)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	19 	+4 	+4
DEX 	9 	−1 	−1
CON 	18 	+4 	+4
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	6 	−2 	−2
WIS 	10 	+0 	+0
CHA 	5 	−3 	−3
Immunities Lightning, Poison; Charmed, Exhaustion, Frightened, Paralyzed,
Petrified, Poisoned
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 10
Languages Understands Common plus one other language but can’t speak
CR 5 (XP 1,800; PB +3)
Traits
Aversion to Fire. If the golem takes Fire damage, it has Disadvantage on attack
rolls and ability checks until the end of its next turn.
Berserk. Whenever the golem starts its turn Bloodied, roll 1d6. On a 6, the
golem goes berserk. On each of its turns while berserk, the golem attacks the
nearest creature it can see. If no creature is near enough to move to and
attack, the golem attacks an object. Once the golem goes berserk, it remains
so until it is destroyed or it is no longer Bloodied.
The golem’s creator, if within 60 feet of the berserk golem, can try to calm it by
taking an action to make a DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) check; the golem
must be able to hear its creator. If this check succeeds, the golem ceases
being berserk until the start of its next turn, at which point it resumes rolling
for the Berserk trait again if it is still Bloodied.
Immutable Form. The golem can’t shape-shift.
Lightning Absorption. Whenever the golem is subjected to Lightning damage, it
regains a number of Hit Points equal to the Lightning damage dealt.
Magic Resistance. The golem has Advantage on saving throws against spells
and other magical effects.
Actions
Multiattack. The golem makes two Slam attacks.
Slam. Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) Bludgeoning damage
plus 4 (1d8) Lightning damage.
Medium Construct, Neutral
ARTIST: AXEL DEFOIS

-- 6 of 14 --

Bizarre creatures with aberrant agendas inhabit the Underdark. Flumphs number among the few that are helpful to strangers.
These tentacled, telepathic creatures jet through the air in short bursts, venting gases with a sound that gives them their name. Rather than speaking,
flumphs communicate telepathically and by changing color to reflect their moods.
Flumphs dwell in psychically charged regions or near creatures with psionic magic. They harmlessly feed off psychic energies, but in doing so, they often
encounter dangerous beings such as aboleths and mind flayers. While flumphs generally avoid combat, they often help adventurers in peril. Such help
might be of doubtful use, but flumphs mean well. Roll on or choose a result from the Flumph Assistance table to inspire what support flumphs provide.
Flumph Assistance
1d6 	The Flumph Helps By...
1 	Cooking a meal of Underdark delicacies.
2 	Performing a psychic song or “smell poem.”
3 	Recovering and nursing fallen adventurers.
4 	Revealing the location of helpful magic items.
5 	Serving as a guide to a foe’s hidden lair.
6 	Sharing excessive encouragement and praise.
Flumph Colors
A flumph’s extremities change color to reflect its mood. The Flumph Colors and Emotions table summarizes common flumph colors and the human
emotions to which they most closely correspond.
Flumph Colors and Emotions
Color 	Emotion
Blue, Dark 	Sadness
Blue, Light 	Happiness
Green 	Curiosity
Magenta 	Unknown*
*Rarely seen; potentially no human equivalent

-- 7 of 14 --

Color 	Emotion
Orange 	Confusion
Pink 	Amusement
Purple 	Fear
Red 	Anger
Teal 	Serenity
Yellow 	Excitement
*Rarely seen; potentially no human equivalent
Fomorian
Cursed Giant of the Dark
Habitat: Underdark; Treasure: Any
FLUMPH
AC 12 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 7 (2d6)
Speed 5 ft., Fly 30 ft. (hover)
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	6 	−2 	−2
DEX 	15 	+2 	+2
CON 	10 	+0 	+0
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	14 	+2 	+2
WIS 	14 	+2 	+2
CHA 	11 	+0 	+0
Skills Arcana +4, History +4, Religion +4
Vulnerabilities Psychic
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 12
Languages Understands Undercommon but can’t speak; telepathy 60 ft.
CR 1/8 (XP 25; PB +2)
Traits
Advanced Telepathy. The flumph perceives the content of any telepathic
communication within 60 feet of it.
Prone Deficiency. If the flumph receives the Prone condition, roll a die. On an
odd number, it has the Incapacitated condition. At the end of each of its turns,
the flumph makes a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw, ending the Incapacitated
condition on a success.
Telepathic Shroud. The flumph’s thoughts can’t be read by any means, and
magic can’t detect its location or observe it remotely.
Actions
Tentacle. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 feet.
Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) Acid damage.
Stench Spray (1/Day). Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 10, one creature the flumph
can see within 15 feet.
Failure: The target is coated in a foul-smelling liquid,
exudes a stench for 1d4 hours, and has the Poisoned condition while the
stench lasts. Other creatures have the Poisoned condition while in a 5-foot
Emanation originating from the coated target. The target can remove the
stench on itself if it bathes during a Short or Long Rest.
Small Aberration, Lawful Good
ARTIST: DAARKEN

-- 8 of 14 --

Once infamous for their magical aptitude, fomorians are giants afflicted with a fey curse. In their pride, they were tricked into invading the Feywild to claim
its magic for their own. When the archfey rulers of that realm united, the fomorians were turned back and cursed with supernatural strangeness to make
their bodies match their vile souls. Ever since, fomorians have dwelled in the Underdark amid the ruins of their magical cities. The archfey’s curse afflicts
them still, tormenting them with wandering cankers, lurching organs, and stranger discomforts. Rather than atoning for their offenses, fomorians harness
the magic of their curse and turn it against others. Roll on or choose a result from the Fomorian Warping table to inspire the cosmetic effects a creature
undergoes while they’re affected by a fomorian’s Warping Hex.
Fomorian Warping
1d4 	The Fomorian’s Hex Causes...
1 	Colorful, wandering pustules.
2 	Excessive sweating of rainbow-hued fluids.
3 	Patches of wriggling hair.
4 	Veins that bulge and lurch under the skin.
FOMORIAN
AC 14 	Initiative +0 (10)
HP 172 (15d12 + 75)
Speed 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	23 	+6 	+6
DEX 	10 	+0 	+0
CON 	20 	+5 	+5
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	9 	−1 	−1
WIS 	14 	+2 	+2
CHA 	6 	−2 	−2
Skills Perception +8, Stealth +3
Senses Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 18
Languages Giant, Undercommon
Huge Giant, Chaotic Evil

-- 9 of 14 --

Frost Giant
Giant of the Ice and Snow
Habitat: Arctic, Mountain; Treasure: Armaments
From glacial mountain heights and vast tundras rise the homes of frost giants. These giants have skin and hair of icy hues. Their natural immunity to cold
allows them to flourish in places inhospitable to most other creatures. They use this resilience to aid them when hunting and in combat, bolstering their
allies with chilling war cries.
Frost giants often travel far to find food and goods. This leads many to become raiders and earn violent reputations. Others live more peaceably by hunting
titanic game or creating sanctuaries from the cold (frequently featuring hot springs or snowy contests). Frost giants sometimes forge partnerships with icy
Fey or fire giants dwelling underground, serving as guardians to their realms in exchange for treasure, weapons, and crafts.
CR 8 (XP 3,900; PB +3)
Actions
Multiattack. The fomorian makes two Stone Club attacks. It can replace one
attack with a use of Warping Hex if available.
Stone Club. Melee Attack Roll: +9, reach 15 ft.
Hit: 24 (4d8 + 6)
Bludgeoning damage.
Warping Hex (Recharge 4–6). Wisdom Saving Throw: DC 16, one creature the
fomorian can see within 120 feet.
Failure: 21 (6d6) Psychic damage, and the
target gains 1 Exhaustion level.
Success: Half damage only.
All-Father Annam banished his son, Karontor, for Karontor’s
part in the fomorian assault on the Feywild. That day, the
ordning—the hierarchy of the giants and their gods—changed
forever, and the fomorians were part of it no more.
—BIGBY
ARTIST: ROBSON MICHEL
The small folk have barely anything worth looting, so
they shouldn’t much mind when we take it from them.
—JARL GRUGNUR, FROST GIANT

-- 10 of 14 --

Fungi
Deadly Spores and Predatory Polyps
Habitat: Underdark; Treasure: None
The dank, sunless Underdark is a fertile breeding ground for weird and dangerous fungi.
Gas Spore Fungus
Gas spores are floating, orbicular fungi with rhizome growths and protuberances that resemble the stalks and eyes of beholders. If destroyed, a gas spore
explodes in a poisonous burst that can infect creatures and slay them in hours. Infected corpses spawn more gas spores that grow to full size in a matter
of days.
FROST GIANT
AC 15 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 149 (13d12 + 65)
Speed 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	23 	+6 	+6
DEX 	9 	−1 	−1
CON 	21 	+5 	+8
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	9 	−1 	−1
WIS 	10 	+0 	+3
CHA 	12 	+1 	+4
Skills Athletics +9, Perception +3
Immunities Cold
Senses Passive Perception 13
Languages Giant
CR 8 (XP 3,900; PB +3)
Actions
Multiattack. The giant makes two attacks, using Frost Axe or Great Bow in
any combination.
Frost Axe. Melee Attack Roll: +9, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 19 (2d12 + 6) Slashing
damage plus 9 (2d8) Cold damage.
Great Bow. Ranged Attack Roll: +9, range 150/600 ft.
Hit: 17 (2d10 + 6) Piercing
damage plus 7 (2d6) Cold damage, and the target’s Speed decreases by 10 feet
until the end of its next turn.
Bonus Actions
War Cry (Recharge 5–6). The giant or one creature of its choice that can see
or hear it gains 16 (2d10 + 5) Temporary Hit Points and has Advantage on
attack rolls until the start of the giant’s next turn.
Huge Giant, Neutral Evil
ARTIST: HELGE C. BALZER

-- 11 of 14 --

Shrieker Fungus
If exposed to light or otherwise disturbed, mushroomlike shriekers emit a high-pitched noise that gives them their name. This wailing might alert other
creatures or attract predators.
Violet Fungus
Slow but mobile, violet fungi rot any flesh they touch with their lashing tendrils.
GAS SPORE FUNGUS
AC 8 	Initiative −5 (5)
HP 13 (9d10 − 36)
Speed 5 ft., Fly 10 ft. (hover)
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	5 	−3 	−3
DEX 	1 	−5 	−5
CON 	3 	−4 	−4
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	1 	−5 	−5
WIS 	1 	−5 	−5
CHA 	1 	−5 	−5
Immunities Poison; Blinded, Charmed, Deafened, Frightened, Paralyzed,
Poisoned, Prone
Senses Blindsight 30 ft; Passive Perception 5
Languages None
CR 1/2 (XP 100; PB +2)
Traits
Death Burst. The gas spore bursts when it dies.
Constitution Saving Throw:
DC 10, each creature in a 20-foot Emanation originating from the gas spore.
Failure: The target takes 10 (3d6) Poison damage and has the Poisoned
condition for 1d12 hours. Unless the Poisoned condition is removed, the
target dies at the end of that time and sprouts 2d4 Tiny Gas Spore Fungi
(each with 1 Hit Point). After 2d6 days, they become Large and have 13
Hit Points.
Actions
Tendril. Melee Attack Roll: +0, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 3 (1d6) Poison damage, and the
target has the Poisoned condition until the end of its next turn.
Large Plant, Unaligned
A GAS SPORE AND CLUSTERS OF SHRIEKERS
AND VIOLET FUNGI GROW IN THE UNDERDARK
SHRIEKER FUNGUS
AC 5 	Initiative −5 (5)
HP 13 (3d8)
Speed 5 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	1 	−5 	−5
DEX 	1 	−5 	−5
CON 	10 	+0 	+0
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	1 	−5 	−5
WIS 	3 	−4 	−4
CHA 	1 	−5 	−5
Immunities Blinded, Charmed, Deafened, Frightened
Senses Blindsight 30 ft.; Passive Perception 6
Languages None
CR 0 (XP 0; PB +2)
Reactions
Shriek. Trigger: A creature or a source of Bright Light moves within 30 feet of
the shrieker.
Response: The shrieker emits a shriek audible within 300 feet of
itself for 1 minute or until the shrieker dies.
Medium Plant, Unaligned
ARTIST: VIKTOR TITOV

-- 12 of 14 --

Violet Fungus Necrohulk
A violet fungus necrohulk forms when a violet fungus colony infests and animates an ample heap of decay. This necrohulk attacks prey and spreads
fungal spores for the colony.
VIOLET FUNGUS NECROHULK
VIOLET FUNGUS
AC 5 	Initiative −5 (5)
HP 18 (4d8)
Speed 5 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	3 	−4 	−4
DEX 	1 	−5 	−5
CON 	10 	+0 	+0
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	1 	−5 	−5
WIS 	3 	−4 	−4
CHA 	1 	−5 	−5
Immunities Blinded, Charmed, Deafened, Frightened
Senses Blindsight 30 ft.; Passive Perception 6
Languages None
CR 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)
Actions
Multiattack. The fungus makes two Rotting Touch attacks.
Rotting Touch. Melee Attack Roll: +2, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 4 (1d8)
Necrotic damage.
Medium Plant, Unaligned
VIOLET FUNGUS NECROHULK
AC 17 	Initiative +4 (14)
HP 123 (13d10 + 52)
Speed 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	19 	+4 	+4
DEX 	12 	+1 	+1
CON 	18 	+4 	+4
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	7 	−2 	−2
WIS 	14 	+2 	+2
CHA 	10 	+0 	+0
Immunities Necrotic, Poison; Blinded, Charmed, Deafened,
Frightened, Poisoned
Senses Blindsight 60 ft.; Passive Perception 12
Languages None
CR 7 (XP 2,900; PB +3)
Actions
Multiattack. The necrohulk makes two Rotting Slam attacks.
Rotting Slam. Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 9 (1d10 + 4) Bludgeoning
damage plus 7 (2d6) Necrotic damage.
Spore Bomb (Recharge 5–6). Constitution Saving Throw: DC 15, each creature
in a 20-foot-radius Sphere centered on a point the necrohulk can see within 60
feet.
Failure: 28 (8d6) Necrotic damage, and the target has the Poisoned
condition until the start of the necrohulk’s next turn. While Poisoned, the target
can’t regain Hit Points.
Success: Half damage only.
Bonus Actions
Absorb Body. Strength Saving Throw: DC 15, one Medium or Small creature the
necrohulk can see within 5 feet.
Failure: The target is pulled into the
necrohulk’s space and becomes grafted to its body. The necrohulk can have
only one target grafted at a time.
While grafted, the target has the Restrained condition and Disadvantage on
Constitution saving throws. When the necrohulk moves, the grafted target
moves with it. If the target dies while grafted, its body is destroyed, and the
necrohulk regains 10 Hit Points.
The grafted target or a creature within 5 feet of the necrohulk can take an
action to make a DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check. On a successful check, the
target is no longer grafted and moves to an unoccupied space within 5 feet of
the necrohulk.
Large Plant, Neutral Evil

-- 13 of 14 --

Our Terms of Service and Privacy Notice have recently been updated to provide greater clarity as to how disputes are handled and transparency
regarding the collection and use of personal data. Please review them here: Terms of Service, Privacy Notice. By continuing to use the services, you
agree to the new Terms.
SUPPORT
Help Portal
Support Forum
System Status
Do Not Sell or Share
My Personal
Information
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Notice
System Reference
Document (SRD)
ABOUT
Contact Us
Careers
Wizards of the
Coast
FIND US ON SOCIAL
MEDIA
DOWNLOAD THE D&D BEYOND
APP
© 2017-2026 WIZARDS OF THE COAST LLC | ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
Dungeons & Dragons, D&D Beyond, D&D, Wizards of the Coast, the dragon ampersand, and all other Wizards of the Coast
product names, campaign settings, their respective logos, and The World's Greatest Roleplaying Game are © and trademark
Wizards of the Coast in the U.S.A. and other countries. © 2026 Wizards.
PRIVACY POLICY 	TERMS OF SERVICE

-- 14 of 14 --

=== Monsters (G) - Monster Manual - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond.pdf ===
MONSTERS (F) 	MONSTERS (H)
Monsters (G)
Galeb Duhr
Eyes and Ears of the Earth
Habitat: Hill, Mountain; Treasure: Any
Beings of living rock, galeb duhr seek harmony with the earth and give voice to the vibrations of stone. Their rocky bodies have limbs and facial features
accented by gems, ores, and other minerals found in the surrounding earth.
Galeb duhr are effectively immortal, with lifespans similar in length to mountains. They don’t experience time or perceive danger as shorter-lived species do.
Galeb duhr avoid danger by hiding from other creatures. When they do reveal themselves, they speak and act ponderously, but they often know much of the
surrounding land and secrets within the earth. When motivated to action, galeb duhr slam into foes and animate nearby boulders to do the same.
Some mountain dwellers view galeb duhr as aloof allies and might entrust these long-lived beings with secrets or treasures for future generations. Others
speak of galeb duhr songs, barely audible harmonizations by groups of galeb duhr that are said to influence earthquakes and volcanic eruptions.
ARTIST: LUCA BANCONE
GALEB DUHR
AC 16 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 123 (13d8 + 65)
Speed 15 ft. (30 ft. when rolling, 60 ft. rolling downhill)
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	20 	+5 	+5
DEX 	14 	+2 	+2
CON 	20 	+5 	+5
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	11 	+0 	+0
WIS 	12 	+1 	+1
CHA 	11 	+0 	+0
Immunities Poison; Charmed, Exhaustion, Frightened, Paralyzed,
Petrified, Poisoned
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Tremorsense 60 ft.; Passive Perception 11
Medium Elemental, Neutral

-- 1 of 44 --

Gargoyle
Sculpted Sentinel Hidden in Plain Sight
Habitat: Underdark, Urban; Treasure: Any
Gargoyles are sculptures inhabited by elemental spirits. Wings and magic allow their heavy stone bodies to fly, and they often perch where they can blend
in amid ornate architecture, rock formations, or mundane statues. Gargoyles usually serve the magic-users who conjured them into their bodies, but if left to
their own devices, they might play cruel pranks and steal treasures to hoard in lofty lairs.
Gargoyle Ambushes
Gargoyles have a variety of appearances. Roll on or choose a result from the Gargoyle
Sculptures table to inspire how a gargoyle looks.
Gargoyle Sculptures
1d6 	The Gargoyle Is Sculpted to Appear...
1 	Cherubic with perpetually smiling features.
2 	Crudely hewed or naturally formed.
3 	Damaged or marred by mismatched pieces.
4 	Dragon-like with polished stone scales.
5 	Gothically fiendish with horns and a tail.
6 	Useful, like an ornate podium or a pillar.
Gargoyles seek to ambush foes or creatures that trespass on their territories. With no biological needs and supernatural patience, these monsters might
wait unmoving for months, revealing themselves only when conditions are perfect to attack. They tend to lurk where statuary seems commonplace or
where terrain obscures the shape and color of their bodies. Roll on or choose a result from the Gargoyle Camouflage table to inspire where a gargoyle sets
up an ambush.
Gargoyle Camouflage
1d8 	The Gargoyle Conceals Itself Amid...
1 	Burls and bark on a giant tree.
2 	Monuments in a graveyard or memorial.
3 	Outcroppings on a cliff or rock formation
4 	The petrified victims of a basilisk or medusa.
5 	Reliefs on a sculpted gate or wall.
6 	Rubble in a ruin or junkyard.
Languages Primordial (Terran)
CR 6 (XP 2,300; PB +3)
Actions
Avalanche Slam. Melee Attack Roll: +8, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5)
Bludgeoning damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature and the galeb
duhr moved 20+ feet straight toward it immediately before the hit, the target
takes an extra 7 (2d6) Bludgeoning damage and has the Prone condition.
Animate Boulders (1/Day). The galeb duhr magically animates one or two
boulders it can see within 60 feet of itself. Each boulder uses the Galeb Duhr
stat block, except it has Intelligence and Charisma scores of 1 and lacks this
action. The boulder takes its turn immediately after the galeb duhr on the same
Initiative count, and it obeys the galeb duhr. A boulder remains animate for 1
minute or until it or the galeb duhr dies.
ARTIST: KENT DAVIS

-- 2 of 44 --

1d8 	The Gargoyle Conceals Itself Amid...
7 	Stalactites or icicles on a cavern ceiling.
8 	Statuary on a castle, mansion, or temple.
Gelatinous Cube
Dungeon-Scouring Block of Ooze
Habitat: Underdark; Treasure: Any
Quivering masses of acidic goo, gelatinous cubes wobble through narrow caverns and dungeons, engulfing anything in their paths. These Oozes are
naturally transparent, making them difficult to see while they’re stationary. Creatures and objects that become stuck within these slimes are gradually
dissolved. Undigested detritus sometimes floats within a gelatinous cube, hinting at its past meals. Roll on or choose a result from the Gelatinous Cube
Debris table to inspire a gelatinous cube’s contents.
Gelatinous Cube Debris
1d6 	Floating in the Gelatinous Cube Is A...
1 	Chest or recently trapped mimic.
2 	Collection of bubbles or rocks resembling eyes.
3 	Key to a nearby door or coffer.
4 	Remarkable weapon in need of repair.
5 	Skeleton belonging to a famous adventurer.
6 	Tablet bearing a mysterious message.
GARGOYLE
AC 15 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 67 (9d8 + 27)
Speed 30 ft., Fly 60 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	15 	+2 	+2
DEX 	11 	+0 	+0
CON 	16 	+3 	+3
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	6 	−2 	−2
WIS 	11 	+0 	+0
CHA 	7 	−2 	−2
Skills Stealth +4
Immunities Poison; Exhaustion, Petrified, Poisoned
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 10
Languages Primordial (Terran)
CR 2 (XP 450; PB +2)
Traits
Flyby. The gargoyle doesn’t provoke an Opportunity Attack when it flies out of
an enemy’s reach.
Actions
Multiattack. The gargoyle makes two Claw attacks.
Claw. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 7 (2d4 + 2) Slashing damage.
Medium Elemental, Chaotic Evil
Where evil passes in the Elemental Plane of Earth, it stains the
rock and spoils the soil. Malice vanishes amid other elements,
but in the dismal dark, the wicked shape it into nightmares.
—TIV, SCHOLAR OF THE ELEMENTAL PLANES

-- 3 of 44 --

Ghasts
Tyrants among Corpses
Habitat: Swamp, Underdark, Urban; Treasure: Any
Ghasts are reeking, undying corpses closely related to ghouls. They hunger for the vices they enjoyed in life as much as they do for rotting flesh.
Ghast
Ghasts frequently organize ghouls into packs to despoil crypts and steal the wealth within.
GELATINOUS CUBE
AC 6 	Initiative −4 (6)
HP 63 (6d10 + 30)
Speed 15 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	14 	+2 	+2
DEX 	3 	−4 	−4
CON 	20 	+5 	+5
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	1 	−5 	−5
WIS 	6 	−2 	−2
CHA 	1 	−5 	−5
Immunities Acid; Blinded, Charmed, Deafened, Exhaustion, Frightened, Prone
Senses Blindsight 60 ft.; Passive Perception 8
Languages None
CR 2 (XP 450; PB +2)
Traits
Ooze Cube. The cube fills its entire space and is transparent. Other creatures
can enter that space, but a creature that does so is subjected to the cube’s
Engulf and has Disadvantage on the saving throw.
Creatures inside the cube have Total Cover, and the cube can hold one Large
creature or up to four Medium or Small creatures inside itself at a time.
As an action, a creature within 5 feet of the cube can pull a creature or an
object out of the cube by succeeding on a DC 12 Strength (Athletics) check,
and the puller takes 10 (3d6) Acid damage.
Transparent. Even when the cube is in plain sight, a creature must succeed on
a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check to notice the cube if the creature hasn’t
witnessed the cube move or otherwise act.
Actions
Pseudopod. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 12 (3d6 + 2) Acid damage.
Engulf. The cube moves up to its Speed without provoking Opportunity
Attacks. The cube can move through the spaces of Large or smaller creatures
if it has room inside itself to contain them (see the Ooze Cube trait).
Dexterity
Saving Throw: DC 12, each creature whose space the cube enters for the first
time during this move.
Failure: 10 (3d6) Acid damage, and the target is
engulfed. An engulfed target is suffocating, can’t cast spells with a Verbal
component, has the Restrained condition, and takes 10 (3d6) Acid damage at
the start of each of the cube’s turns. When the cube moves, the engulfed target
moves with it. An engulfed target can try to escape by taking an action to
make a DC 12 Strength (Athletics) check. On a successful check, the target
escapes and enters the nearest unoccupied space.
Success: Half damage, and
the target moves to an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the cube. If there is
no unoccupied space, the target fails the save instead.
Large Ooze, Unaligned
ARTIST: OLIVIER BERNARD
GHAST
AC 13 	Initiative +3 (13)
HP 36 (8d8)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	16 	+3 	+3
DEX 	17 	+3 	+3
CON 	10 	+0 	+0
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	11 	+0 	+0
WIS 	10 	+0 	+2
CHA 	8 	−1 	−1
Resistances Necrotic
Medium Undead, Chaotic Evil

-- 4 of 44 --

Ghast Gravecaller
Ghast gravecallers wield fell magic and converse with corpses. They might pose as liches or vampires.
Immunities Poison; Charmed, Exhaustion, Poisoned
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 10
Languages Common
CR 2 (XP 450; PB +2)
Traits
Stench. Constitution Saving Throw: DC 10, any creature that starts its turn in a
5-foot Emanation originating from the ghast.
Failure: The target has the
Poisoned condition until the start of its next turn.
Success: The target is
immune to this ghast’s Stench for 24 hours.
Actions
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) Piercing damage plus 9
(2d8) Necrotic damage.
Claw. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) Slashing damage. If
the target is a non-Undead creature, it is subjected to the following effect.
Constitution Saving Throw: DC 10.
Failure: The target has the Paralyzed
condition until the end of its next turn.
ARTIST: OLIVIER BERNARD
GHAST GRAVECALLER
AC 16 	Initiative +3 (13)
HP 97 (15d8 + 30)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	16 	+3 	+3
DEX 	17 	+3 	+3
CON 	14 	+2 	+5
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	18 	+4 	+4
WIS 	14 	+2 	+5
CHA 	8 	−1 	−1
Immunities Necrotic, Poison; Charmed, Exhaustion, Poisoned
Senses Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 12
Languages Abyssal, Common
CR 6 (XP 2,300; PB +3)
Traits
Stench. Constitution Saving Throw: DC 13, any creature that starts its turn in a
5-foot Emanation originating from the ghast.
Failure: The target has the
Poisoned condition until the start of its next turn.
Success: The target is
immune to this ghast’s Stench for 24 hours.
Actions
Multiattack. The ghast makes two Horrific Necrosis attacks. It can replace
one attack with a Claw attack.
Claw. Melee Attack Roll: +6, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 13 (3d6 + 3) Slashing damage. If
the target isn’t an Undead, it has the Paralyzed condition until the end of its
next turn.
Horrific Necrosis. Melee or Ranged Attack Roll: +7, reach 5 ft. or range 120 ft.
Hit: 15 (2d10 + 4) Necrotic damage, and the target has the Frightened
condition until the end of its next turn.
Spellcasting. The ghast casts one of the following spells, requiring no Material
components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability:
At Will:
Speak with Dead,
Thaumaturgy
Medium Undead, Chaotic Evil
ARTIST: STEVEN BELLEDIN

-- 5 of 44 --

Ghost
Lost Soul and Unquiet Spirit
Habitat: Underdark, Urban; Treasure: Any
Ghosts arise when living creatures die in a state of extreme emotion or
having left an important task undone. These incorporeal spirits haunt
locations that are meaningful to them, lingering until their business is
complete or they’re put to rest.
Ghosts typically appear as semitransparent versions of the creatures they
were in life, though some bear evidence of the wounds that killed them or
have nightmarish distortions to their forms. Many have extreme reactions to
actions, objects, or individuals that remind them of emotionally charged
aspects of their lives. Particularly desperate or vengeful ghosts might
possess the living to fulfill their ends.
Ghouls
Eaters of the Dead
Habitat: Swamp, Underdark, Urban; Treasure: Any
GHOST
AC 11 	Initiative +1 (11)
HP 45 (10d8)
Speed 5 ft., Fly 40 ft. (hover)
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	7 	−2 	−2
DEX 	13 	+1 	+1
CON 	10 	+0 	+0
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	10 	+0 	+0
WIS 	12 	+1 	+1
CHA 	17 	+3 	+3
Resistances Acid, Bludgeoning, Cold, Fire, Lightning, Piercing,
Slashing, Thunder
Immunities Necrotic, Poison; Charmed, Exhaustion, Frightened, Grappled,
Paralyzed, Petrified, Poisoned, Prone, Restrained
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 11
Languages Common plus one other language
CR 4 (XP 1,100; PB +2)
Traits
Ethereal Sight. The ghost can see 60 feet into the Ethereal Plane when it is on
the Material Plane.
Incorporeal Movement. The ghost can move through other creatures and
objects as if they were Difficult Terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) Force damage if it
ends its turn inside an object.
Actions
Multiattack. The ghost makes two Withering Touch attacks.
Withering Touch. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 19 (3d10 + 3)
Necrotic damage.
Etherealness. The ghost casts the
Etherealness spell, requiring no spell
components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability. The ghost is
visible on the Material Plane while on the Border Ethereal and vice versa, but it
can’t affect or be affected by anything on the other plane.
Horrific Visage. Wisdom Saving Throw: DC 13, each creature in a 60-foot Cone
that can see the ghost and isn’t an Undead.
Failure: 10 (2d6 + 3) Psychic
damage, and the target has the Frightened condition until the start of the
ghost’s next turn.
Success: The target is immune to this ghost’s Horrific
Visage for 24 hours.
Possession (Recharge 6). Charisma Saving Throw: DC 13, one Humanoid the
ghost can see within 5 feet.
Failure: The target is possessed by the ghost; the
ghost disappears, and the target has the Incapacitated condition and loses
control of its body. The ghost now controls the body, but the target retains
awareness. The ghost can’t be targeted by any attack, spell, or other effect,
except ones that specifically target Undead. The ghost’s game statistics are
the same, except it uses the possessed target’s Speed, as well as the target’s
Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution modifiers.
The possession lasts until the body drops to 0 Hit Points or the ghost leaves
as a Bonus Action. When the possession ends, the ghost appears in an
unoccupied space within 5 feet of the target, and the target is immune to this
ghost’s Possession for 24 hours.
Success: The target is immune to this ghost’s Possession for 24 hours.
Medium Undead, Neutral

-- 6 of 44 --

Packs of ghouls haunt the rotten corners of the world, ravenously hunting for corpses and those soon to be corpses. These gaunt, animate cadavers with
unnaturally long tongues dwell in catacombs and ruins where they devour the contents of graves and paralyze foes with vicious claws.
Ghoul
Ghouls rise from the bodies of cannibals and villains with depraved hungers. They form packs out of shared voracity.
On a plain of teeth, in a temple of filth, the starving king wastes
no morsel. Every coffin a banquet. Every slab a platter. Now is
the time of feasting!
—INVOCATION OF DORESAIN, KING OF GHOULS
ARTIST: ANDREY KUZINSKIY
GHOUL
AC 12 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 22 (5d8)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	13 	+1 	+1
DEX 	15 	+2 	+2
CON 	10 	+0 	+0
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	7 	−2 	−2
WIS 	10 	+0 	+0
CHA 	6 	−2 	−2
Immunities Poison; Charmed, Exhaustion, Poisoned
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 10
Languages Common
CR 1 (XP 200; PB +2)
Actions
Multiattack. The ghoul makes two Bite attacks.
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) Piercing damage plus 3
(1d6) Necrotic damage.
Claw. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) Slashing damage. If the
target is a creature that isn’t an Undead or elf, it is subjected to the following
effect.
Constitution Saving Throw: DC 10.
Failure: The target has the Paralyzed
condition until the end of its next turn.
Medium Undead, Chaotic Evil

-- 7 of 44 --

Lacedon Ghoul
Lacedons are loose-skinned, aquatic ghouls. They often arise from the corpses of greedy pirates, those who starved on deserted islands, or scoundrels who
met their end by drowning.
Gibbering Mouther
Ravenous Chorus of Unreality
Habitat: Underdark; Treasure: None
Gibbering mouthers endlessly feed on and regrow their own amoeboid bodies—amorphous heaps roiling with eyes, teeth, and strange organs. These mind-
bending terrors sing and scream, laugh and cry with a cacophony of voices ranging from disturbingly unnatural to shockingly familiar. They exist only to
feed and to unleash their disdain for reality, their many maws dripping with otherworldly spittle.
Gibbering mouthers come into being in various unpleasant ways. Roll on or choose a result from the Gibbering Mouther Nascencies table to inspire what
brought one of these horrors into being.
LACEDON GHOUL
AC 12 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 22 (5d8)
Speed 30 ft., Swim 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	13 	+1 	+1
DEX 	15 	+2 	+2
CON 	10 	+0 	+0
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	7 	−2 	−2
WIS 	10 	+0 	+0
CHA 	6 	−2 	−2
Resistances Cold
Immunities Poison; Charmed, Exhaustion, Poisoned
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 10
Languages Common
CR 1 (XP 200; PB +2)
Actions
Multiattack. The ghoul makes two Icy Bite attacks.
Icy Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 9 (2d6 + 2) Cold damage, and
the target’s Speed decreases by 5 feet until the start of the ghoul’s next turn.
Claw. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) Slashing damage. If the
target is a creature that isn’t an Undead or elf, it is subjected to the following
effect.
Constitution Saving Throw: DC 10.
Failure: The target has the Paralyzed
condition until the end of its next turn.
Bonus Actions
Watery Rush. While underwater, the ghoul moves up to half its Swim Speed
without provoking Opportunity Attacks.
Medium Undead, Chaotic Evil
ARTIST: HELGE C. BALZER
Alas, the Elder Elves made a fatal mistake. When the Dragon’s
Tear comet next returned, the Vast Gate—still keyed to the Far

-- 8 of 44 --

Gibbering Mouther Nascencies
1d6 	The Gibbering Mouther Is...
1 	Another creature warped by dangerous magic.
2 	The autonomous appendage of a chaotic deity, Far Realm entity, or star-spawn horror.
3 	The experiment of an aberrant manipulator.
4 	Part of the life cycle of some other Aberration.
5 	A shape-shifter that lost control of its powers.
6 	Someone cursed by a cult or vengeful deity.
Githyanki
Invaders from the Astral Plane
Habitat: Planar (Astral Plane); Treasure: Armaments
Realm of alien entities—linked to the comet and opened again.
And what emerged, ululating profanities, sang unnameable
hungers into an unguarded world.
—FROM
THE BOOK OF THE GATE, FOUND NEAR FIRESTORM PEAK
GIBBERING MOUTHER
AC 9 	Initiative −1 (9)
HP 52 (7d8 + 21)
Speed 20 ft., Swim 20 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	10 	+0 	+0
DEX 	8 	−1 	−1
CON 	16 	+3 	+3
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	3 	−4 	−4
WIS 	10 	+0 	+0
CHA 	6 	−2 	−2
Immunities Prone
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 10
Languages None
CR 2 (XP 450; PB +2)
Traits
Aberrant Ground. The ground in a 10-foot Emanation originating from the
mouther is Difficult Terrain.
Gibbering. The mouther babbles incoherently while it doesn’t have the
Incapacitated condition.
Wisdom Saving Throw: DC 10, any creature that starts
its turn within 20 feet of the mouther while it is babbling.
Failure: The target
rolls 1d8 to determine what it does during the current turn:
1–4. The target does nothing.
5–6. The target takes no action or Bonus Action and uses all its movement to
move in a random direction.
7–8. The target makes a melee attack against a randomly determined creature
within its reach or does nothing if it can’t make such an attack.
Actions
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +2, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 7 (2d6) Piercing damage. If the
target is a Medium or smaller creature, it has the Prone condition. The target
dies if it is reduced to 0 Hit Points by this attack. Its body is then absorbed
into the mouther, leaving only equipment behind.
Blinding Spittle (Recharge 5–6). Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 10, each creature
in a 10-foot-radius Sphere centered on a point within 30 feet.
Failure: 7 (2d6)
Radiant damage, and the target has the Blinded condition until the end of the
mouther’s next turn.
Medium Aberration, Chaotic Neutral
ARTIST: JASON RAINVILLE

-- 9 of 44 --

Githyanki were once an ordinary people, but the deeds of a vile mind flayer empire etched conflict on their being. Gaunt, humanlike creatures, githyanki have
serrated ears and speckled skin ranging through shades of yellow, green, and brown. While some githyanki follow their own paths, many are influenced by a
past that forever altered their fates.
History of the Gith
Ages ago, a humanlike people were conquered by an empire of mind flayers. The illithids manipulated this forgotten people through untold horrors, forced
evolution, and psychic reshaping. Eventually one named Gith rose from among the captives and led a rebellion against their oppressors. Gith’s followers,
who became known as the gith, defeated the mind flayers and shattered their vast empire.
The victory of the gith was short-lived. As Gith was forging her own burgeoning empire, a leader named Zerthimon challenged her. Zerthimon claimed Gith’s
drive for vengeance and new conquests was evidence of species-wide mental programing laid by the mind flayers, biological manipulation that condemned
her people to continued servitude. This claim split the gith into Gith’s followers, the githyanki (meaning “followers of Gith”), and Zerthimon’s followers, the
githzerai (meaning “those who spurn Gith”), and sparked an ongoing conflict.
When Gith perished, her adviser, Vlaakith, assumed rule of the githyanki. Vlaakith’s line has continued to the githyanki’s current ruler, Vlaakith the Lich-
Queen. This undead tyrant compels her people to wage endless wars against mind flayers, githzerai, and any others that threaten githyanki supremacy.
Githyanki Warrior
Githyanki warriors use psionic abilities to augment their battle prowess.
LEFT TO RIGHT: GITHYANKI DRACOMANCER, GITHYANKI KNIGHT, AND GITHYANKI WARRIOR
To slay in Vlaakith’s name is our greatest service. To die
in her name is our last act of reverence.
—MELDAVH, GITHYANKI KNIGHT
GITHYANKI WARRIOR
AC 17 	Initiative +4 (14)
HP 49 (9d8 + 9)
Speed 30 ft.	Medium Aberration (Gith), Lawful Evil

-- 10 of 44 --

Githyanki Knight
Githyanki knights wield silver blades to slay magic-users who use the
Astral Projection spell to intrude on githyanki territories on the Astral Plane. These
silver blades are sacred to the githyanki. Non-githyanki who claim these weapons often find themselves hunted by wrathful githyanki knights.
Githyanki Dracomancer
One of Gith’s last deeds was to forge an alliance between the githyanki and the dragon god Tiamat. Ever since, the Dragon Queen’s red dragon consort,
Ephelomon, and his kind have been allies of the githyanki. Githyanki dracomancers uphold this pact and cultivate magic talents that complement the might
of red dragons.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	15 	+2 	+2
DEX 	14 	+2 	+2
CON 	12 	+1 	+3
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	13 	+1 	+3
WIS 	13 	+1 	+3
CHA 	10 	+0 	+0
Gear Half-Plate Armor
Senses Passive Perception 11
Languages Common, Gith
CR 3 (XP 700; PB +2)
Actions
Multiattack. The githyanki makes two Psi Blade attacks.
Psi Blade. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 9 (2d6 + 2) Slashing damage
plus 7 (2d6) Psychic damage.
Spellcasting. The githyanki casts one of the following spells, requiring no spell
components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability:
At Will:
Mage Hand (the hand is Invisible)
2/Day:
Nondetection (self only)
Bonus Actions
Misty Step (2/Day). The githyanki casts
Misty Step, requiring no spell
components and using the same spellcasting ability as Spellcasting.
GITHYANKI KNIGHT
AC 18 	Initiative +5 (15)
HP 117 (18d8 + 36)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	16 	+3 	+3
DEX 	14 	+2 	+2
CON 	15 	+2 	+5
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	14 	+2 	+5
WIS 	14 	+2 	+5
CHA 	15 	+2 	+2
Gear Plate Armor
Senses Passive Perception 12
Languages Common, Gith
CR 8 (XP 3,900; PB +3)
Actions
Multiattack. The githyanki makes three Silver Sword attacks. It can replace
one attack with a use of Spellcasting to cast
Telekinesis if available.
Silver Sword. Melee Attack Roll: +6, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) Slashing
damage plus 14 (4d6) Psychic damage.
Critical Hit: If the target is in an astral
body (as with the
Astral Projection spell), the githyanki can cut the silvery cord
that tethers the target to its material body instead of dealing damage.
Spellcasting. The githyanki casts one of the following spells, requiring no
spell components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save
DC 13):
At Will:
Mage Hand (the hand is Invisible)
2/Day Each:
Nondetection (self only),
Tongues
1/Day Each:
Plane Shift,
Telekinesis
Bonus Actions
Misty Step (2/Day). The githyanki casts
Misty Step, requiring no spell
components and using the same spellcasting ability as Spellcasting.
Medium Aberration (Gith), Lawful Evil
GITHYANKI DRACOMANCER
AC 18 	Initiative +8 (18)
HP 255 (30d8 + 120)
Speed 30 ft., Fly 30 ft. (hover)
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	10 	+0 	+0
DEX 	16 	+3 	+8
CON 	18 	+4 	+9
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	20 	+5 	+10
WIS 	16 	+3 	+8
CHA 	18 	+4 	+4
Skills Arcana +10, Perception +8
Senses Blindsight 30 ft.; Passive Perception 18
Medium Aberration (Gith), Lawful Evil

-- 11 of 44 --

Githzerai
Explorers at Reality’s Extremes
Habitat: Planar (Limbo); Treasure: Arcana, Individual
Githzerai are gaunt, humanlike beings, physically identical to githyanki. They share a history with githyanki as creatures physically and psychically
transformed by mind flayers (see the “Githyanki” section). Githzerai know that in body and mind, their species was manipulated by their former illithid
oppressors. Rather than giving in to this programming, githzerai follow the teachings of their first leader, Zerthimon, and reshape their minds and bodies to
find peace.
Githzerai psychically create serene, hidden sanctuaries in chaotic reaches of the multiverse. Most of these redoubts drift through the chaotic plane of
Limbo, but githzerai conclaves can also be found in the Abyss, the Elemental Chaos, and the Feywild. Githzerai create these cloisters to hone their psionic
abilities, to gain insights from the multiverse, and to avoid githyanki and mind flayers.
Languages Common, Draconic, Gith
CR 16 (XP 15,000; PB +5)
Actions
Multiattack. The githyanki makes three Draconic Strike attacks.
Draconic Strike. Melee or Ranged Attack Roll: +10, reach 10 ft. or range 120 ft.
Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) Slashing damage plus 17 (5d6) Fire damage, and the target
has the Frightened condition until the start of the githyanki’s next turn.
Conjured Dragon’s Breath (Recharge 5–6). Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 18, each
creature in a 90-foot Cone.
Failure: 27 (6d8) Fire damage plus 27 (6d8) Force
damage.
Success: Half damage.
Spellcasting. The githyanki casts one of the following spells, requiring no spell
components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC
18, +10 to hit with spell attacks):
At Will:
Mage Hand (the hand is Invisible)
2/Day Each:
Nondetection (self only),
Plane Shift,
Tongues
Bonus Actions
Misty Step (3/Day). The githyanki casts
Misty Step, requiring no spell
components and using the same spellcasting ability as Spellcasting.
LEFT TO RIGHT: GITHZERAI ZERTH, GITHZERAI PSION, AND GITHZERAI MONK
ARTIST: JASON RAINVILLE
We githzerai crave a challenge, so that when Zerthimon returns,
he shall find us ready. Thus we traveled to howling Limbo to
make our new home.
—ZAERITH MENYAR-AG-GITH, GITHZERAI LEADER

-- 12 of 44 --

Adventures with Gith
Characters might be drawn into conflicts involving githzerai and githyanki in various ways. Roll on or choose a result from the Gith Conflicts table to inspire
adventures featuring these age-old rivals.
Gith Conflicts
1d8 	The Characters Are...
1 	Called on to deliver a message or mysterious parcel to or from Vlaakith the Lich Queen.
2 	Encouraged by a disguised intellect devourer to seek out an elusive gith leader.
3 	Entreated to aid githzerai fleeing the githyanki who destroyed their sanctuary.
4 	Entrusted with renewing or disrupting the githyanki’s alliance with red dragons.
5 	Invited to hunt illithids with githyanki.
6 	Pressed to uncover a gith spy in a planar community or on a spelljamming ship.
7 	Sent on a quest to discover the last known location of the hero Gith or Zerthimon.
8 	Tasked with returning the blade of a fallen githyanki knight to the knight’s people.
Githzerai Monk
Githzerai monks pursue control of their minds by honing their physical and psionic talents. They might be found beyond githzerai sanctuaries, testing
themselves amid the dangerous extremes of the multiverse.
Githzerai Zerth
Githzerai zerths embody the discipline espoused by their first leader, Zerthimon. Their psionic control aids them in protecting their people and traveling the
planes of existence without fear of being followed by githyanki or mind flayer foes.
GITHZERAI MONK
AC 14 	Initiative +4 (14)
HP 38 (7d8 + 7)
Speed 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	12 	+1 	+3
DEX 	15 	+2 	+4
CON 	12 	+1 	+1
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	13 	+1 	+3
WIS 	14 	+2 	+4
CHA 	10 	+0 	+0
Skills Insight +4, Perception +4
Senses Passive Perception 14
Languages Common, Gith
CR 2 (XP 450; PB +2)
Actions
Multiattack. The githzerai makes two Psi Strike attacks.
Psi Strike. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2) Bludgeoning
damage plus 9 (2d8) Psychic damage.
Spellcasting. The githzerai casts one of the following spells, requiring no spell
components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability:
At Will:
Mage Hand (the hand is Invisible)
1/Day:
See Invisibility
Bonus Actions
Psi-Powered Leap (2/Day). The githzerai casts
Jump, requiring no spell
components and using the same spellcasting ability as Spellcasting.
Reactions
Psionic Defense (2/Day). The githzerai casts
Feather Fall or
Shield in response
to the spell’s trigger, requiring no spell components and using the same
spellcasting ability as Spellcasting.
Medium Aberration (Gith), Lawful Neutral
GITHZERAI ZERTH
AC 17 	Initiative +7 (17)
HP 84 (13d8 + 26)
Speed 40 ft.
Medium Aberration (Gith), Lawful Neutral

-- 13 of 44 --

Githzerai Psion
These powerful psions oversee githzerai sanctuaries, study enigmatic planar events, and lead rrakkma—hostile forays into mind flayer colonies to slay
illithids and uncover secrets of how the ancient gith were transformed.
Glabrezu
Demon of Delusion and Entrapment
Habitat: Planar (Abyss); Treasure: Relics
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	13 	+1 	+4
DEX 	18 	+4 	+7
CON 	15 	+2 	+2
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	16 	+3 	+6
WIS 	17 	+3 	+6
CHA 	12 	+1 	+1
Skills Arcana +6, Insight +6, Perception +6
Senses Passive Perception 16
Languages Common, Gith
CR 6 (XP 2,300; PB +3)
Actions
Multiattack. The githzerai makes two Psi Strike attacks.
Psi Strike. Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) Bludgeoning
damage plus 13 (3d8) Psychic damage.
Spellcasting. The githzerai casts one of the following spells, requiring no spell
components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14):
At Will:
Mage Hand (the hand is Invisible)
1/Day Each:
Phantasmal Killer (level 6 version),
Plane Shift,
See Invisibility
Bonus Actions
Psi-Powered Leap (2/Day). The githzerai casts
Jump, requiring no spell
components and using the same spellcasting ability as Spellcasting.
Reactions
Psionic Defense (2/Day). The githzerai casts
Feather Fall or
Shield in response
to the spell’s trigger, requiring no spell components and using the same
spellcasting ability as Spellcasting.
GITHZERAI PSION
AC 18 	Initiative +8 (18)
HP 169 (26d8 + 52)
Speed 40 ft., Fly 40 ft. (hover)
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	12 	+1 	+5
DEX 	18 	+4 	+8
CON 	15 	+2 	+2
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	19 	+4 	+8
WIS 	18 	+4 	+8
CHA 	14 	+2 	+2
Skills Arcana +8, Insight +8, Perception +8
Senses Passive Perception 18
Languages Common, Gith
CR 12 (XP 8,400; PB +4)
Actions
Multiattack. The githzerai makes three Psychic Warp attacks.
Psychic Warp. Melee or Ranged Attack Roll: +8, reach 5 ft. or range 120 ft.
Hit:
26 (4d10 + 4) Psychic damage, and the target has the githzerai’s choice of (A)
the Charmed condition until the start of the githzerai’s next turn or (B) the
Prone condition, provided the target is a Large or smaller creature.
Spellcasting. The githzerai casts one of the following spells, requiring no
spell components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save
DC 16):
At Will:
Mage Hand (the hand is Invisible)
1/Day Each:
Plane Shift,
See Invisibility
Reactions
Psionic Defense. The githzerai casts
Feather Fall or
Shield in response to the
spell’s trigger, requiring no spell components and using the same spellcasting
ability as Spellcasting.
Medium Aberration (Gith), Lawful Neutral
ARTIST: RICHARD LUONG

-- 14 of 44 --

Glabrezus embody delusion and predatory guile. These cunning demons know the most effective traps are those that individuals devise for themselves.
Despite having massive claws and overwhelming physicality, glabrezus excel at using flattery and misdirection to coerce victims into isolating themselves
and harming others.
In the Abyss, glabrezus act as lone hunters or deceitful advisers to greater demons. Glabrezus seek routes to the Material Plane and relish being summoned
by magic-users. They eagerly serve mortals while tempting them to betray their allies and indulge in hubristic fantasies. A glabrezu strives to murder its
summoner once the magic-user has committed irredeemable misdeeds and the mortal’s soul is surely condemned to the Abyss.
Your companion’s life, or what you’ve journeyed through infinity
in search of! Make your choice.
—GERRZOG, GLABREZU OF THE INFINITE STAIRCASE
GLABREZU
AC 17 	Initiative +6 (16)
HP 189 (18d10 + 90)
Speed 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	20 	+5 	+9
DEX 	15 	+2 	+2
CON 	21 	+5 	+9
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	19 	+4 	+4
WIS 	17 	+3 	+7
CHA 	16 	+3 	+7
Skills Deception +7, Perception +7
Resistances Cold, Fire, Lightning
Immunities Poison; Poisoned
Senses Truesight 120 ft.; Passive Perception 17
Languages Abyssal; telepathy 120 ft.
CR 9 (XP 5,000; PB +4)
Traits
Demonic Restoration. If the glabrezu dies outside the Abyss, its body dissolves
into ichor, and it gains a new body instantly, reviving with all its Hit Points
somewhere in the Abyss.
Magic Resistance. The glabrezu has Advantage on saving throws against
spells and other magical effects.
Actions
Multiattack. The glabrezu makes two Pincer attacks and uses Pummel
or Spellcasting.
Pincer. Melee Attack Roll: +9, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) Slashing damage.
If the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it has the Grappled condition
(escape DC 15) from one of two pincers.
Pummel. Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 17, one creature Grappled by the
glabrezu.
Failure: 15 (3d6 + 5) Bludgeoning damage.
Success: Half damage.
Large Fiend (Demon), Chaotic Evil

-- 15 of 44 --

Gladiator
Competitor and Prizefighter
Habitat: Any; Treasure: Armaments, Individual
Gladiators are professional fighters who pit themselves against one another, monsters, and other challenges to entertain audiences. While some compete
merely to survive, others love the thrill of performing—and all gladiators know the importance of theatrics in keeping audiences excited. Roll on or choose
an option from the Gladiator Theatrics table to inspire the unique flourishes a gladiator uses when competing.
Gladiator Theatrics
1d6 	During a Competition, the Gladiator...
1 	Dedicates their impending victory to a deity, ruler, beloved noble, or member of the crowd.
2 	Dresses in a monster-themed mask and cape.
3 	Judges whether their foe fights honorably.
4 	Leads the crowd in a rousing theme song.
5 	Seeks to claim a trophy from a foe.
6 	Takes advice from the crowd, omens, or a pet.
Spellcasting. The glabrezu casts one of the following spells, requiring no
Material components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell
save DC 16):
At Will:
Darkness,
Detect Magic,
Dispel Magic
1/Day Each:
Confusion,
Fly,
Power Word Stun
ARTIST: ALEJANDRO PACHECO

-- 16 of 44 --

Gnolls
Fiends in Feral Flesh
Habitat: Desert, Forest, Grassland, Hill; Treasure: Armaments, Individual
GLADIATOR
AC 16 	Initiative +5 (15)
HP 112 (15d8 + 45)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	18 	+4 	+7
DEX 	15 	+2 	+5
CON 	16 	+3 	+6
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	10 	+0 	+0
WIS 	12 	+1 	+4
CHA 	15 	+2 	+2
Skills Athletics +10, Performance +5
Gear Shield, Spears (3), Studded Leather Armor
Senses Passive Perception 11
Languages Common
CR 5 (XP 1,800; PB +3)
Actions
Multiattack. The gladiator makes three Spear attacks. It can replace one attack
with a use of Shield Bash.
Spear. Melee or Ranged Attack Roll: +7, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft.
Hit: 11 (2d6 +
4) Piercing damage.
Shield Bash. Strength Saving Throw: DC 15, one creature within 5 feet that the
gladiator can see.
Failure: 9 (2d4 + 4) Bludgeoning damage. If the target is a
Medium or smaller creature, it has the Prone condition.
Reactions
Parry. Trigger: The gladiator is hit by a melee attack roll while holding a weapon.
Response: The gladiator adds 3 to its AC against that attack, possibly causing it
to miss.
Medium or Small Humanoid, Neutral
IN AN UNDERSEA ARENA, THE CROWD GOES WILD
AS A GLADIATOR TRIUMPHS OVER A GIANT SQUID
ARTIST: VIKO MENEZES

-- 17 of 44 --

The first gnolls arose from hyenas that fed on flesh tainted by the Abyss. Their corruption and violence delighted the demon lord Yeenoghu, who
encouraged their numbers and spread them across the multiverse. Ever since, gnolls have been the cackling servants of Yeenoghu, existing to cause ruin
and to feast on what remains.
Gnoll Warrior
Gnoll warriors crave endless slaughter but quickly grow bored with the prey they kill and the treasures they plunder. Nevertheless, they’re enraged by the
thought of anyone else having what’s theirs, compelling them to ruin what they can’t take with them.
Gnoll Pack Lord
Rising above other gnolls with their viciousness and physical prowess, gnoll pack lords terrorize weaker gnolls into their service. These brutes drive other
gnolls to acts of great violence, then claim the best of their servants’ spoils.
GNOLL WARRIORS RAMPAGE AFTER A GNOLL PACK LORD, A GNOLL FANG OF YEENOGHU, AND A GNOLL DEMONIAC
GNOLL WARRIOR
AC 15 	Initiative +1 (11)
HP 27 (6d8)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	14 	+2 	+2
DEX 	12 	+1 	+1
CON 	11 	+0 	+0
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	6 	−2 	−2
WIS 	10 	+0 	+0
CHA 	7 	−2 	−2
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 10
Languages Gnoll
CR 1/2 (XP 100; PB +2)
Actions
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) Piercing damage.
Bone Bow. Ranged Attack Roll: +3, range 150/600 ft.
Hit: 6 (1d10 + 1)
Piercing damage.
Bonus Actions
Rampage (1/Day). Immediately after dealing damage to a creature that is
already Bloodied, the gnoll moves up to half its Speed, and it makes one
Rend attack.
Medium Fiend, Chaotic Evil
GNOLL PACK LORD
AC 15 	Initiative +4 (14)	Medium Fiend, Chaotic Evil

-- 18 of 44 --

Gnoll Fang of Yeenoghu
Gnolls possessed by demonic vestiges of the demon lord Yeenoghu, fangs of Yeenoghu direct the chaos of gnoll packs. Along the way, these fanatics seek
grisly omens from Yeenoghu and strive to interpret the demon lord’s vicious goals.
Gnoll Demoniac
Gnoll demoniacs are berserkers that arise from gnolls who’ve ritualistically fed on flesh corrupted by the Abyss. Now embodying the ruinous hunger of
Yeenoghu, these gnolls throw themselves into battle, heedless of odds or their own survival. Rampaging demoniacs even devour other gnolls in their wild
frenzies.
HP 49 (9d8 + 9)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	16 	+3 	+3
DEX 	14 	+2 	+2
CON 	13 	+1 	+1
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	8 	−1 	−1
WIS 	11 	+0 	+0
CHA 	9 	−1 	−1
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 10
Languages Gnoll
CR 2 (XP 450; PB +2)
Actions
Multiattack. The gnoll makes two attacks, using Bone Whip or Bone Javelin in
any combination, and it uses Incite Rampage if available.
Bone Whip. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 8 (2d4 + 3)
Slashing damage.
Bone Javelin. Ranged Attack Roll: +5, range 30/120 ft.
Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3)
Piercing damage.
Incite Rampage (Recharge 5–6). The gnoll targets another creature it can see
within 60 feet of itself that has the Rampage Bonus Action. The target can take
a Reaction to make one melee attack.
Bonus Actions
Rampage (2/Day). Immediately after dealing damage to a creature that is
already Bloodied, the gnoll moves up to half its Speed, and it makes one Bone
Whip attack.
GNOLL FANG OF YEENOGHU
AC 14 	Initiative +4 (14)
HP 71 (11d8 + 22)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	17 	+3 	+3
DEX 	15 	+2 	+2
CON 	15 	+2 	+4
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	10 	+0 	+0
WIS 	11 	+0 	+2
CHA 	13 	+1 	+3
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 10
Languages Abyssal, Gnoll
CR 4 (XP 1,100; PB +2)
Actions
Multiattack. The gnoll makes one Bite attack and two Bone Flail attacks.
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) Piercing damage plus 7
(2d6) Poison damage, and the target has the Poisoned condition until the start
of the gnoll’s next turn.
Bone Flail. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) Piercing damage.
Bonus Actions
Rampage (2/Day). Immediately after dealing damage to a creature that is
already Bloodied, the gnoll moves up to half its Speed, and it makes one
Bite attack.
Medium Fiend, Chaotic Evil
Yeenoghu claims gnolls not as his brood but as maggots
purposefully released to infest a despised carcass. They are a
pernicious rot the Beast of Butchery spreads across mortal
worlds. Whatever they once were, they were remade and are
now his.
—IGGWILV,
DEMONOMICON OF IGGWILV
GNOLL DEMONIAC
AC 16 	Initiative +4 (14)
HP 135 (18d8 + 54)
Speed 30 ft.
Medium Fiend, Chaotic Evil

-- 19 of 44 --

Goblins
Wild Tricksters and Troublemakers
Habitat: Forest, Grassland, Hill, Planar (Acheron, Feywild), Underdark; Treasure: Implements, Individual
Goblins are Feywild embodiments of recklessness and ruin. They delight in wreckage—the louder, the more energetic, and the more convoluted, the better.
Goblin raids are often as much opportunities to enjoy setting fires and tormenting livestock as they are parts of more disruptive plots.
Goblins obey those who accomplish the wildest plans. Such leaders might be goblin raid masterminds, bombastic magic-users, or those capable of making
the loudest noises. Hobgoblins and forceful humanoids might also command ornery groups of goblins, directing their destructiveness toward banditry,
sabotage, or war.
The deity Maglubiyet claims to be the god of goblins, hobgoblins, and bugbears, and on the Infinite Battlefield of Acheron, the deity commands
innumerable goblinoid legions. In ages long past, Maglubiyet witnessed the destructive propensity of goblinoids and relocated a population of them from
the Feywild to his realm on the Outer Planes. Since then, hordes of these more martial-minded goblins have flourished, with some finding their ways to
Material Plane worlds. These vicious invaders seek to sow ruin in preparation for their god’s conquest.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	16 	+3 	+6
DEX 	12 	+1 	+1
CON 	17 	+3 	+6
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	14 	+2 	+2
WIS 	15 	+2 	+5
CHA 	17 	+3 	+6
Skills Perception +5
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 15
Languages Abyssal, Common, Gnoll
CR 8 (XP 3,900; PB +3)
Actions
Multiattack. The gnoll makes two Abyssal Strike attacks.
Abyssal Strike. Melee or Ranged Attack Roll: +6, reach 5 ft. or range 60 ft.
Hit:
20 (5d6 + 3) Poison damage.
Hunger of Yeenoghu (Recharge 5–6). The gnoll conjures a 30-foot Cube of
magical Darkness originating from a point it can see within 60 feet, which
lasts for 1 minute or until the gnoll’s Concentration ends on it. This area is
Difficult Terrain.
Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 14, any creature that starts its turn
in this area or enters it for the first time on a turn.
Failure: 28 (8d6) Necrotic
damage, and the gnoll or a creature of its choice it can see gains 10
Temporary Hit Points.
Success: Half damage only.
Bonus Actions
Rampage (2/Day). Immediately after dealing damage to a creature that is
already Bloodied, the gnoll moves up to half its Speed, and it makes one
Abyssal Strike attack.
A GOBLIN BOSS, A GOBLIN HEXER, AND A GOBLIN WARRIOR PREPARE TO STRIKE AGAINST A BITTER FOE
ARTIST: TARAS SUSAK

-- 20 of 44 --

Goblin Minion
Goblin minions enjoy participating in the disruptive schemes of clever leaders but are quick to flee when confronted by their comeuppance.
Goblin Warrior
Goblin warriors excel at causing mischief. Those in service to Maglubiyet have greater discipline and are likely to withdraw to set up ambushes.
Goblin Boss
Goblin bosses are often the most imaginative, disruptive, or forceful goblins. Through a combination of luck, cowardice, and callousness, these leaders
avoid harm at the expense of their followers.
Bree-yark!
—APPROXIMATE TRANSLATION FROM
GOBLIN TO COMMON: “HEY, RUBE!”
GOBLIN MINION
AC 12 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 7 (2d6)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	8 	−1 	−1
DEX 	15 	+2 	+2
CON 	10 	+0 	+0
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	10 	+0 	+0
WIS 	8 	−1 	−1
CHA 	8 	−1 	−1
Skills Stealth +6
Gear Daggers (3)
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 9
Languages Common, Goblin
CR 1/8 (XP 25; PB +2)
Actions
Dagger. Melee or Ranged Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft.
Hit: 4
(1d4 + 2) Piercing damage.
Bonus Actions
Nimble Escape. The goblin takes the Disengage or Hide action.
Small Fey (Goblinoid), Chaotic Neutral
GOBLIN WARRIOR
AC 15 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 10 (3d6)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	8 	−1 	−1
DEX 	15 	+2 	+2
CON 	10 	+0 	+0
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	10 	+0 	+0
WIS 	8 	−1 	−1
CHA 	8 	−1 	−1
Skills Stealth +6
Gear Leather Armor, Scimitar, Shield, Shortbow
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 9
Languages Common, Goblin
CR 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)
Actions
Scimitar. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) Slashing damage,
plus 2 (1d4) Slashing damage if the attack roll had Advantage.
Shortbow. Ranged Attack Roll: +4, range 80/320 ft.
Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) Piercing
damage, plus 2 (1d4) Piercing damage if the attack roll had Advantage.
Bonus Actions
Nimble Escape. The goblin takes the Disengage or Hide action.
Small Fey (Goblinoid), Chaotic Neutral
GOBLIN BOSS
AC 17 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 21 (6d6)
Speed 30 ft.
Small Fey (Goblinoid), Chaotic Neutral

-- 21 of 44 --

Goblin Hexer
Goblin hexers use flashy and disruptive magic. Many goblin hexers are theatrical, dressing and behaving in exaggerated mimicry of archmages.
Gold Dragons
Dragons of Hope and Majesty
Habitat: Forest, Grassland; Treasure: Arcana
Gold dragons work to make the world a better place. The most powerful of the metallic dragons, these awe-inspiring dragons strive to protect that which is
good and bend fate toward a brighter future. Their kind dispositions don’t prevent gold dragons from engaging in combat when necessary, though, and they
exhale brilliant flames and weakening magic to rout their foes.
Gold dragons favor grasslands and pristine forests, frequently dwelling near awe-inspiring natural wonders or guarding monuments from ancient
civilizations. In their lairs, gold dragons hoard coins and gems, but they frequently put their treasure to use in pursuit of greater goals. They often use their
riches to buy rare lore books, pay informants, or patronize idealistic adventurers.
Gold Dragon Wyrmling
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	10 	+0 	+0
DEX 	15 	+2 	+2
CON 	10 	+0 	+0
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	10 	+0 	+0
WIS 	8 	−1 	−1
CHA 	10 	+0 	+0
Skills Stealth +6
Gear Chain Shirt, Scimitar, Shield, Shortbow
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 9
Languages Common, Goblin
CR 1 (XP 200; PB +2)
Actions
Multiattack. The goblin makes two attacks, using Scimitar or Shortbow in
any combination.
Scimitar. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) Slashing damage,
plus 2 (1d4) Slashing damage if the attack roll had Advantage.
Shortbow. Ranged Attack Roll: +4, range 80/320 ft.
Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) Piercing
damage, plus 2 (1d4) Piercing damage if the attack roll had Advantage.
Bonus Actions
Nimble Escape. The goblin takes the Disengage or Hide action.
Reactions
Redirect Attack. Trigger: A creature the goblin can see makes an attack roll
against it.
Response: The goblin chooses a Small or Medium ally within 5 feet
of itself. The goblin and that ally swap places, and the ally becomes the target
of the attack instead.
GOBLIN HEXER
AC 13 	Initiative +3 (13)
HP 45 (10d6 + 10)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	8 	−1 	−1
DEX 	16 	+3 	+3
CON 	12 	+1 	+1
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	16 	+3 	+3
WIS 	10 	+0 	+0
CHA 	10 	+0 	+0
Skills Sleight of Hand +5, Stealth +7
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 10
Languages Common, Goblin
CR 3 (XP 700; PB +2)
Actions
Multiattack. The goblin makes two Hex Stick attacks. It can replace one attack
with a use of Spellcasting.
Hex Stick. Melee or Ranged Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft. or range 60 ft.
Hit: 12
(2d8 + 3) Psychic damage.
Spellcasting. The goblin casts one of the following spells, using Intelligence
as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 13):
At Will:
Minor Illusion
1/Day Each:
Blindness/Deafness,
Faerie Fire,
Grease
Reactions
Jinx. Trigger: A creature the goblin can see hits it with an attack roll.
Response
—Wisdom Saving Throw: DC 13, the triggering creature.
Failure: The attack
misses instead.
Small Fey (Goblinoid), Chaotic Neutral

-- 22 of 44 --

Gold dragon wyrmlings learn much from their elders, then head off to save the world. Idealistic and curious, these wyrmlings seek to right obvious wrongs
and make friends among those they aid.
Young Gold Dragon
Young gold dragons have seen glimpses of the world’s true evils and crusade to oppose them. They often seek bold and direct solutions to problems.
GOLD DRAGON WYRMLING
AC 17 	Initiative +4 (14)
HP 60 (8d8 + 24)
Speed 30 ft., Fly 60 ft., Swim 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	19 	+4 	+4
DEX 	14 	+2 	+4
CON 	17 	+3 	+3
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	14 	+2 	+2
WIS 	11 	+0 	+2
CHA 	16 	+3 	+3
Skills Perception +4, Stealth +4
Immunities Fire
Senses Blindsight 10 ft., Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 14
Languages Draconic
CR 3 (700 XP; PB +2)
Traits
Amphibious. The dragon can breathe air and water.
Actions
Multiattack. The dragon makes two Rend attacks.
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +6, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 9 (1d10 + 4) Slashing damage.
Fire Breath (Recharge 5–6).
Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 13, each creature in a
15-foot Cone.
Failure: 22 (4d10) Fire damage.
Success: Half damage.
Weakening Breath. Strength Saving Throw: DC 13, each creature that isn’t
currently affected by this breath in a 15-foot Cone.
Failure: The target has
Disadvantage on Strength-based D20 Tests and subtracts 2 (1d4) from its
damage rolls. It repeats the save at the end of each of its turns, ending the
effect on itself on a success. After 1 minute, it succeeds automatically.
Medium Dragon (Metallic), Lawful Good
ARTIST: ALEXANDER OSTROWSKI
YOUNG GOLD DRAGON
AC 18 	Initiative +6 (16)
HP 178 (17d10 + 85)
Speed 40 ft., Fly 80 ft., Swim 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	23 	+6 	+6
DEX 	14 	+2 	+6
CON 	21 	+5 	+5
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	16 	+3 	+3
WIS 	13 	+1 	+5
CHA 	20 	+5 	+5
Skills Insight +5, Perception +9, Persuasion +9, Stealth +6
Immunities Fire
Senses Blindsight 30 ft., Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 19
Languages Common, Draconic
CR 10 (XP 5,900; PB +4)
Traits
Amphibious. The dragon can breathe air and water.
Actions
Multiattack. The dragon makes three Rend attacks. It can replace one attack
with a use of Weakening Breath.
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +10, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 17 (2d10 + 6) Slashing damage.
Fire Breath (Recharge 5–6).
Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 17, each creature in a
30-foot Cone.
Failure: 55 (10d10) Fire damage.
Success: Half damage.
Weakening Breath. Strength Saving Throw: DC 17, each creature that isn’t
currently affected by this breath in a 30-foot Cone.
Failure: The target has
Disadvantage on Strength-based D20 Tests and subtracts 3 (1d6) from its
damage rolls. It repeats the save at the end of each of its turns, ending the
effect on itself on a success. After 1 minute, it succeeds automatically.
Large Dragon (Metallic), Lawful Good

-- 23 of 44 --

Gold Dragon Lairs
Gold dragons make their homes in places of natural and magical wonder.
The region containing an adult or ancient gold dragon’s lair is altered by its presence, creating the following effects:
Dream Messenger. While in its lair, the dragon can cast
Dream, requiring no Material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability. When
casting the spell this way, the dragon can target any creature within 6 miles.
Foretelling Fog. The area within 1 mile of the lair is Lightly Obscured by opalescent fog. While in that area, creatures can’t be surprised, as the fog swirls
into shapes that warn of danger.
If the dragon dies or moves its lair elsewhere, these effects end immediately.
Adult Gold Dragon
Adult gold dragons act subtly, frequently changing their shape to resemble harmless animals or cultivating personas so they can pass as common people.
AN ADULT GOLD DRAGON GUARDS THE SITE OF A MYSTERIOUS SEAL FROM INTRUDERS
ARTIST: ALEXANDER OSTROWSKI
ADULT GOLD DRAGON
AC 19 	Initiative +14 (24)
HP 243 (18d12 + 126)
Speed 40 ft., Fly 80 ft., Swim 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	27 	+8 	+8
DEX 	14 	+2 	+8
CON 	25 	+7 	+7
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	16 	+3 	+3
WIS 	15 	+2 	+8
CHA 	24 	+7 	+7
Skills Insight +8, Perception +14, Persuasion +13, Stealth +8
Immunities Fire
Senses Blindsight 60 ft., Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 24
Languages Common, Draconic
CR 17 (XP 18,000, or 20,000 in lair; PB +6)
Traits
Amphibious. The dragon can breathe air and water.
Legendary Resistance (3/Day, or 4/Day in Lair). If the dragon fails a saving
throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
Actions
Multiattack. The dragon makes three Rend attacks. It can replace one attack
with a use of (A) Spellcasting to cast
Guiding Bolt (level 2 version) or (B)
Weakening Breath.
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +14, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 17 (2d8 + 8) Slashing damage
plus 4 (1d8) Fire damage.
Fire Breath (Recharge 5–6).
Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 21, each creature in a
60-foot Cone.
Failure: 66 (12d10) Fire damage.
Success: Half damage.
Huge Dragon (Metallic), Lawful Good

-- 24 of 44 --

Ancient Gold Dragon
Ancient gold dragons are wise and mysterious. Many aid virtuous groups, guiding them in secret or patronizing them from afar. Only when stakes are at
their highest do ancient gold dragons reveal themselves in all their majesty.
Spellcasting. The dragon casts one of the following spells, requiring no
Material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell
save DC 21, +13 to hit with spell attacks):
At Will:
Detect Magic,
Guiding Bolt (level 2 version),
Shapechange (Beast or
Humanoid form only, no Temporary Hit Points gained from the spell, and no
Concentration or Temporary Hit Points required to maintain the spell)
1/Day Each:
Flame Strike,
Zone of Truth
Weakening Breath. Strength Saving Throw: DC 21, each creature that isn’t
currently affected by this breath in a 60-foot Cone.
Failure: The target has
Disadvantage on Strength-based D20 Tests and subtracts 3 (1d6) from its
damage rolls. It repeats the save at the end of each of its turns, ending the
effect on itself on a success. After 1 minute, it succeeds automatically.
Legendary Actions
Legendary Action Uses: 3 (4 in Lair). Immediately after another creature’s turn,
the dragon can expend a use to take one of the following actions. The dragon
regains all expended uses at the start of each of its turns.
Banish. Charisma Saving Throw: DC 21, one creature the dragon can see within
120 feet.
Failure: 10 (3d6) Force damage, and the target has the Incapacitated
condition and is transported to a harmless demiplane until the start of the
dragon’s next turn, at which point it reappears in an unoccupied space of the
dragon’s choice within 120 feet of the dragon.
Failure or Success: The dragon
can’t take this action again until the start of its next turn.
Guiding Light. The dragon uses Spellcasting to cast
Guiding Bolt (level
2 version).
Pounce. The dragon moves up to half its Speed, and it makes one Rend attack.
THE PURE OF HEART HAVE NOTHING TO FEAR IN
THE PRESENCE OF AN ANCIENT GOLD DRAGON
ARTIST: ALEXANDER OSTROWSKI
ANCIENT GOLD DRAGON

-- 25 of 44 --

Gorgons
Bull-like Guardians with Petrifying Breath
Habitat: Forest, Grassland, Hill; Treasure: Any
AC 22 	Initiative +16 (26)
HP 546 (28d20 + 252)
Speed 40 ft., Fly 80 ft., Swim 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	30 	+10 	+10
DEX 	14 	+2 	+9
CON 	29 	+9 	+9
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	18 	+4 	+4
WIS 	17 	+3 	+10
CHA 	28 	+9 	+9
Skills Insight +10, Perception +17, Persuasion +16, Stealth +9
Immunities Fire
Senses Blindsight 60 ft., Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 27
Languages Common, Draconic
CR 24 (XP 62,000, or 75,000 in lair; PB +7)
Traits
Amphibious. The dragon can breathe air and water.
Legendary Resistance (4/Day, or 5/Day in Lair). If the dragon fails a saving
throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
Actions
Multiattack. The dragon makes three Rend attacks. It can replace one attack
with a use of (A) Spellcasting to cast
Guiding Bolt (level 4 version) or (B)
Weakening Breath.
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +17 to hit, reach 15 ft.
Hit: 19 (2d8 + 10) Slashing
damage plus 9 (2d8) Fire damage.
Fire Breath(Recharge 5–6).
Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 24, each creature in a
90-foot Cone.
Failure: 71 (13d10) Fire damage.
Success: Half damage.
Spellcasting. The dragon casts one of the following spells, requiring no
Material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell
save DC 24, +16 to hit with spell attacks):
At Will:
Detect Magic,
Guiding Bolt (level 4 version),
Shapechange (Beast or
Humanoid form only, no Temporary Hit Points gained from the spell, and no
Concentration or Temporary Hit Points required to maintain the spell)
1/Day Each:
Flame Strike (level 6 version),
Word of Recall,
Zone of Truth
Weakening Breath. Strength Saving Throw: DC 24, each creature that isn’t
currently affected by this breath in a 90-foot Cone.
Failure: The target has
Disadvantage on Strength-based D20 Tests and subtracts 5 (1d10) from its
damage rolls. It repeats the save at the end of each of its turns, ending the
effect on itself on a success. After 1 minute, it succeeds automatically.
Legendary Actions
Legendary Action Uses: 3 (4 in Lair). Immediately after another creature’s turn,
the dragon can expend a use to take one of the following actions. The dragon
regains all expended uses at the start of each of its turns.
Banish. Charisma Saving Throw: DC 24, one creature the dragon can see within
120 feet.
Failure: 24 (7d6) Force damage, and the target has the Incapacitated
condition and is transported to a harmless demiplane until the start of the
dragon’s next turn, at which point it reappears in an unoccupied space of the
dragon’s choice within 120 feet of the dragon.
Failure or Success: The dragon
can’t take this action again until the start of its next turn.
Guiding Light. The dragon uses Spellcasting to cast
Guiding Bolt (level
4 version).
Pounce. The dragon moves up to half its Speed, and it makes one Rend attack.
Gargantuan Dragon (Metallic), Lawful Good
ARTIST: KAI CARPENTER

-- 26 of 44 --

Resembling mighty bulls armored in iron plates, gorgons are lifelike automatons that seek to destroy all who enter their territories. In addition to goring foes
with their deadly horns and trampling them under their iron hooves, gorgons exhale gouts of noxious gas.
Gorgons are created by magic-users to serve as guardians. The process for creating a gorgon is labor intensive and dangerous, with one method requiring
the skeleton of a bull, the blood of a medusa, and the brain of a basilisk fused into a frame of ensorcelled iron. If the process fails, petrifying gas emerges
from the materials, creating a magical threat that can fill a structure and linger for years.
When magic-users create gorgons, they often enchant them to ignore those who confront the creature with a specific command key, usually a password or
a specific signal. Once a gorgon is set to guard an area, it attacks any who enter until they flee or are destroyed. Should someone provide the command key,
the monster ignores that intruder so long as the intruder remains in its sight. But if the intruder ventures out of sight and then returns without again
presenting the command key, the gorgon attacks. Those in a gorgon’s territory must remain vigilant and aware of the monster’s exact position, or they risk
being attacked by a gorgon they thought was no longer a threat.
Those who create gorgons strive to give them purposefully obscure command keys. Hints at command keys might be found among the records of a
gorgon’s creator or in the area the gorgon protects—perhaps scrawled as a petrified trespasser’s final act. Roll on or choose a result from the Gorgon
Command Keys table to inspire the word or signal that temporarily neutralizes a gorgon.
Gorgon Command Keys
1d6 	Gorgon Won’t Attack Those That...
1 	Cast a particular spell in the gorgon’s presence.
2 	Keep their back to the gorgon or otherwise act like they don’t see the monster.
3 	Offer it a drink of blood, water, or wine.
A GORGON PETRIFIES VICTIMS WITH ITS DEADLY BREATH, THEN TRAMPLES THEM TO PIECES
Notable among my eccentric ancestor’s scattered designs was
a schematic of a swamp-dwelling bovine monster and an
ominous note: “Do better.”
—LUM THE MAESTRO,
A MIND OF METAL

-- 27 of 44 --

1d6 	Gorgon Won’t Attack Those That...
4 	Recite a specific rhyme or sing a certain song.
5 	Say its creator’s name backward.
6 	Wear a mask, perhaps in the shape of a bull or an animal meaningful to the gorgon’s creator.
Gorgon
Most gorgons are iron bulls wreathed in clouds of petrifying gas. Their metal plates vary in sheen and color, from sleek silver to pitted black. The oldest
gorgons might be covered in rust, but this rarely impedes their abilities. These gorgons’ stomping grounds are littered with the shattered remains of petrified
foes. Many gorgons outlive their creators by centuries, misleading some to believe these creations have natural origins and territories. Most such gorgons
continue to follow age-old commands, guarding sites long fallen to ruin.
Brazen Gorgon
Followers of the exiled archdevil Moloch altered the process of creating gorgons to craft their own diabolical guardians called brazen gorgons. These
gorgons are hollow, bull-like automatons whose metal bodies glow with intense heat. When they charge their foes, the ribs of their frames open like cages
to ensnare enemies and roast them within. Brazen gorgons are often found in blasphemous sites dedicated to Moloch, other archdevils, or bloodthirsty
gods.
GORGON
AC 19 	Initiative +0 (10)
HP 114 (12d10 + 48)
Speed 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	20 	+5 	+5
DEX 	11 	+0 	+0
CON 	18 	+4 	+4
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	2 	−4 	−4
WIS 	12 	+1 	+1
CHA 	7 	−2 	−2
Skills Perception +7
Immunities Exhaustion, Petrified
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 17
Languages None
CR 5 (XP 1,800; PB +3)
Actions
Gore. Melee Attack Roll: +8, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 18 (2d12 + 5) Piercing damage.
If the target is a Large or smaller creature and the gorgon moved 20+
feet straight toward it immediately before the hit, the target has the
Prone condition.
Petrifying Breath (Recharge 5–6). Constitution Saving Throw: DC 15, each
creature in a 30-foot Cone.
First Failure: The target has the Restrained
condition and repeats the save at the end of its next turn if it is still Restrained,
ending the effect on itself on a success.
Second Failure: The target has the
Petrified condition instead of the Restrained condition.
Bonus Actions
Trample. Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 16, one creature within 5 feet that has
the Prone condition.
Failure: 16 (2d10 + 5) Bludgeoning damage.
Success:
Half damage.
Large Construct, Unaligned
BRAZEN GORGON
AC 19 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 161 (17d10 + 68)
Speed 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	18 	+4 	+4
DEX 	14 	+2 	+2
CON 	19 	+4 	+4
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	2 	−4 	−4
WIS 	14 	+2 	+2
CHA 	7 	−2 	−2
Skills Perception +10
Immunities Fire; Exhaustion, Petrified
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 20
Languages None
CR 9 (XP 5,000; PB +4)
Traits
Flame Aura. At the end of each of the gorgon’s turns, each creature in a 5-foot
Emanation originating from the gorgon takes 13 (3d8) Fire damage.
Illumination. The gorgon sheds Bright Light in a 10-foot radius and Dim Light
for an additional 10 feet.
Large Construct, Unaligned

-- 28 of 44 --

Goristro
Demon of Disaster
Habitat: Planar (Abyss); Treasure: Armaments
Terrifying in scale and overwhelming power, goristros are giant demons capable of bringing cities to ruin. These demons embody senseless anarchy and
nihilistic destruction, and they take special offense at creatures or structures that rival them in size. Castles, towers, giants, and beasts of war are all
common victims of these monsters’ wrath.
Goristros resemble hunched, primeval minotaurs bearing the scars of Abyssal wars or wounds from mighty war machines. Their appearance reflects that of
their creator, Baphomet, the demon lord worshiped by many evil minotaurs. Goristros stalk Baphomet’s Abyssal realm, known as the Endless Maze, and
pulp any non-demons they encounter in that massive, magical labyrinth.
Actions
Multiattack. The gorgon makes two Gore attacks.
Gore. Melee Attack Roll: +8, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) Piercing damage plus
10 (3d6) Fire damage.
Smelting Charge (Recharge 5–6). The gorgon moves up to its Speed without
provoking Opportunity Attacks and can move through the spaces of Medium or
smaller creatures. Each time the gorgon enters a creature’s space for the first
time during this move, that target is subjected to the following effect.
Dexterity
Saving Throw: DC 16.
Failure: 13 (2d8 + 4) Piercing damage plus 13 (3d8) Fire
damage, and the target is pulled into the gorgon’s space and has the Grappled
condition (escape DC 14); if the gorgon already has a creature Grappled, the
target has the Prone condition instead. Until the grapple ends, the target has
the Restrained condition. When the gorgon moves, the Grappled target moves
with it, costing no extra movement.
ARTIST: BEN WOOTTEN
Plot and strategize, bait and scheme, but hubris is no armor
against ruin incarnate, and greater beings than you have fallen
under the onslaught of the Abyss.
—MELLAGORUS THE PIT FIEND,
DECEPTIONS AND STRATAGEMS
GORISTRO
AC 19 	Initiative +6 (16)	Huge Fiend (Demon), Chaotic Evil

-- 29 of 44 --

Gray Oozes
Hungry Slimes and Magical Failures
Habitat: Underdark; Treasure: None
Gray oozes are predatory, corrosive slimes that blend in with stony
surroundings.
Gray Ooze
Gray oozes appear in areas affected by unpredictable magic. Magic-users
who fail in their attempts to bind elemental spirits to the bodies of
Constructs might also accidentally create gray oozes.
HP 310 (23d12 + 161)
Speed 50 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	25 	+7 	+13
DEX 	11 	+0 	+6
CON 	25 	+7 	+13
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	6 	−2 	−2
WIS 	13 	+1 	+7
CHA 	14 	+2 	+2
Skills Perception +7, Survival +7
Resistances Cold, Fire, Lightning
Immunities Poison; Poisoned
Senses Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 17
Languages Abyssal
CR 17 (XP 18,000; PB +6)
Traits
Demonic Restoration. If the goristro dies outside the Abyss, its body dissolves
into ichor, and it gains a new body instantly, reviving with all its Hit Points
somewhere in the Abyss.
Magic Resistance. The goristro has Advantage on saving throws against
spells and other magical effects.
Siege Monster. The goristro deals double damage to objects and structures.
Actions
Multiattack. The goristro makes one Brutal Gore attack and two Slam attacks.
Brutal Gore. Melee Attack Roll: +13, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 40 (6d10 + 7) Piercing
damage. If the target is a Huge or smaller creature, it is pushed up to 20 feet
straight away from the goristro and has the Prone condition.
Slam. Melee Attack Roll: +13, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 29 (4d10 + 7)
Bludgeoning damage.
Bonus Actions
Charge. The goristro moves up to half its Speed straight toward an enemy it
can see.
ARTIST: MARK BEHM
GRAY OOZE
AC 9 	Initiative −2 (13)
HP 22 (3d8 + 9)
Speed 10 ft., Climb 10 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	12 	+1 	+1
DEX 	6 	−2 	−2
CON 	16 	+3 	+3
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	1 	−5 	−5
WIS 	6 	−2 	−2
CHA 	2 	−4 	−4
Skills Stealth +2
Resistances Acid, Cold, Fire
Immunities Blinded, Charmed, Deafened, Exhaustion, Frightened, Grappled,
Prone, Restrained
Senses Blindsight 60 ft.; Passive Perception 8
Languages None
CR 1/2 (XP 100; PB +2)
Traits
Amorphous. The ooze can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch without
expending extra movement to do so.
Corrosive Form. Nonmagical ammunition is destroyed immediately after
hitting the ooze and dealing any damage. Any nonmagical weapon takes a
cumulative −1 penalty to attack rolls immediately after dealing damage to the
ooze and coming into contact with it. The weapon is destroyed if the penalty
reaches −5. The penalty can be removed by casting the
Mending spell on
the weapon.
The ooze can eat through 2-inch-thick, nonmagical metal or wood in 1 round.
Actions
Pseudopod. Melee Attack Roll: +3, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 10 (2d8 + 1) Acid damage.
Nonmagical armor worn by the target takes a −1 penalty to the AC it offers.
The armor is destroyed if the penalty reduces its AC to 10. The penalty can be
removed by casting the
Mending spell on the armor.
Medium Ooze, Unaligned

-- 30 of 44 --

Psychic Gray Ooze
Psychic gray oozes exhibit violent psionic abilities. These oozes sometimes result from failed attempts to summon or create creatures linked to the
Elemental Plane of Earth, like gargoyles or homunculi.
Green Dragons
Dragons of Deceit and Derision
Habitat: Forest; Treasure: Arcana
From forbidden forest depths, green dragons whisper evils into the world and manipulate the lives of those who listen. Elusive, conniving, and egotistical,
these chromatic dragons patiently prey on the fears of shorter-lived beings, corrupting and isolating them. Green dragons might lurk amid labyrinthine
wildernesses for centuries without revealing themselves; even their most devoted followers might know them only as the voice of the woodlands or a
whisper in their dreams.
Despite their might, most green dragons disdain physical violence, viewing combat as servants’ work and preferring to trick foes into dangerous or
exploitative scenarios. These dragons collect “baubles” that embody their webs of manipulation and serve as tools of extortion, such as compromising
documents, family heirlooms, and sentimental treasures.
Green Dragon Wyrmling
Green dragon wyrmlings often serve as pawns in older dragons’ schemes. By spying on those dragons’ agents, wyrmlings learn the art of manipulation.
Once they’ve accumulated influence and lackeys, these wyrmlings depart to claim their own territories and pursue their sinister ambitions.
PSYCHIC GRAY OOZE
AC 9 	Initiative −1 (14)
HP 37 (5d8 + 15)
Speed 10 ft., Climb 10 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	12 	+1 	+1
DEX 	8 	−1 	−1
CON 	16 	+3 	+3
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	10 	+0 	+0
WIS 	6 	−2 	−2
CHA 	2 	−4 	−4
Skills Stealth +3
Resistances Acid, Cold, Fire, Psychic
Immunities Blinded, Charmed, Deafened, Exhaustion, Frightened, Grappled,
Prone, Restrained
Senses Blindsight 60 ft.; Passive Perception 8
Languages None
CR 1 (XP 200; PB +2)
Traits
Amorphous. The ooze can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch without
expending extra movement to do so.
Actions
Pseudopod. Melee Attack Roll: +3, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 11 (3d6 + 1) Acid damage,
and the target has Disadvantage on Intelligence saving throws until the end of
the ooze’s next turn.
Psychic Crush. Intelligence Saving Throw: DC 10, one creature the ooze can
see within 60 feet.
Failure: 13 (3d8) Psychic damage.
Reactions
Mind Corrosion. Trigger: The ooze fails a saving throw against a spell or
another magical effect created by a creature.
Response: The triggering
creature takes 3 (1d6) Psychic damage.
Medium Ooze, Unaligned
GREEN DRAGON WYRMLING
AC 17 	Initiative +3 (13)
HP 38 (7d8 + 7)
Speed 30 ft., Fly 60 ft., Swim 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	15 	+2 	+2
DEX 	12 	+1 	+3
CON 	13 	+1 	+1
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	14 	+2 	+2
WIS 	11 	+0 	+2
CHA 	13 	+1 	+1
Skills Perception +4, Stealth +3
Medium Dragon (Chromatic), Lawful Evil

-- 31 of 44 --

Young Green Dragon
Young green dragons frequently control groups of ettercaps, kobolds, thieves, or other cowardly servants. These dragons do so while avoiding other evil
dragons, who would sabotage them. Gradually, oppressing weaker creatures and amassing meaningless fortunes bore young green dragons, and they
pursue more ambitious ways to indulge their egos.
Immunities Poison; Poisoned
Senses Blindsight 10 ft., Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 14
Languages Draconic
CR 2 (XP 450; PB +2)
Traits
Amphibious. The dragon can breathe air and water.
Actions
Multiattack. The dragon makes two Rend attacks.
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 7 (1d10 + 2) Slashing damage plus
3 (1d6) Poison damage.
Poison Breath (Recharge 5–6). Constitution Saving Throw: DC 11, each
creature in a 15-foot Cone.
Failure: 21 (6d6) Poison damage.
Success:
Half damage.
ARTIST: ALEXANDER OSTROWSKI
YOUNG GREEN DRAGON
AC 18 	Initiative +4 (14)
HP 136 (16d10 + 48)
Speed 40 ft., Fly 80 ft., Swim 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	19 	+4 	+4
DEX 	12 	+1 	+4
CON 	17 	+3 	+3
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	16 	+3 	+3
WIS 	13 	+1 	+4
CHA 	15 	+2 	+2
Skills Deception +5, Perception +7, Stealth +4
Immunities Poison; Poisoned
Senses Blindsight 30 ft., Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 17
Languages Common, Draconic
CR 8 (XP 3,900; PB +3)
Traits
Amphibious. The dragon can breathe air and water.
Actions
Multiattack. The dragon makes three Rend attacks.
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) Slashing damage
plus 7 (2d6) Poison damage.
Poison Breath (Recharge 5–6). Constitution Saving Throw: DC 14, each
creature in a 30-foot Cone.
Failure: 42 (12d6) Poison damage.
Success:
Half damage.
Large Dragon (Chromatic), Lawful Evil
ARTIST: ALEXANDER OSTROWSKI

-- 32 of 44 --

Green Dragon Lairs
Green dragons lair in ancient forests, often shaping stands of massive trees into compounds of
interwoven branches, hollow trunks, and caverns amid mighty roots. They might also dwell amid
forested ruins, particularly the former homes of those they’ve conquered.
The region containing an adult or ancient green dragon’s lair is warped by its presence, creating the
following effects:
Beast Spies. Tiny Beasts magically gain the ability to understand Draconic and can communicate
telepathically with the dragon while within 1 mile of the lair.
Poisonous Thicket. Ordinary plants growing within 1 mile of the lair poison the air around them.
Whenever a creature other than the dragon or its allies finishes a Long Rest in that area, it must
succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or have the Poisoned condition for 1 hour.
If the dragon dies or moves its lair elsewhere, these effects end immediately.
Adult Green Dragon
The words of adult green dragons are as deadly as their poisonous breath. They are brilliant
schemers that pride themselves on influencing communities near their lairs. They obsess over
information and create vast spy networks. Many of these dragons seek magical methods of
surveillance or domination, and they manipulate adventurers into hunting down lost magic to aid in
such control.
AN ADULT GREEN DRAGON
SHADOWS ITS PREY
ADULT GREEN DRAGON
AC 19 	Initiative +11 (21)
HP 207 (18d12 + 90)
Speed 40 ft., Fly 80 ft., Swim 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	23 	+6 	+6
DEX 	12 	+1 	+6
CON 	21 	+5 	+5
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	18 	+4 	+4
WIS 	15 	+2 	+7
CHA 	18 	+4 	+4
Skills Deception +9, Perception +12, Persuasion +9, Stealth +6
Immunities Poison; Poisoned
Senses Blindsight 60 ft., Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 22
Languages Common, Draconic
CR 15 (XP 13,000, or 15,000 in lair; PB +5)
Traits
Amphibious. The dragon can breathe air and water.
Legendary Resistance (3/Day, or 4/Day in Lair). If the dragon fails a saving
throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
Actions
Multiattack. The dragon makes three Rend attacks. It can replace one attack
with a use of Spellcasting to cast
Mind Spike (level 3 version).
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +11, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6) Slashing damage
plus 7 (2d6) Poison damage.
Poison Breath (Recharge 5–6). Constitution Saving Throw: DC 18, each
creature in a 60-foot Cone.
Failure: 56 (16d6) Poison damage.
Success:
Half damage.
Spellcasting. The dragon casts one of the following spells, requiring no
Material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell
save DC 17):
At Will:
Detect Magic,
Mind Spike (level 3 version)
1/Day:
Geas
Legendary Actions
Legendary Action Uses: 3 (4 in Lair). Immediately after another creature’s turn,
the dragon can expend a use to take one of the following actions. The dragon
regains all expended uses at the start of each of its turns.
Mind Invasion. The dragon uses Spellcasting to cast
Mind Spike (level
3 version).
Huge Dragon (Chromatic), Lawful Evil

-- 33 of 44 --

Ancient Green Dragon
Ancient green dragons are creatures of legend, rarely seen by their servants or foes. Via magic and well-hidden agents, these dragons stoke suspicion
between allies and undermine noble works. As bonds fray, the dragons reap rewards of greater wealth and control. Eventually the ambitions of ancient
green dragons stretch beyond their territories as they seek control over empires, planar realms, or death itself.
Noxious Miasma. Constitution Saving Throw: DC 17, each creature in a 20-
foot-radius Sphere centered on a point the dragon can see within 90 feet.
Failure: 7 (2d6) Poison damage, and the target takes a −2 penalty to AC until
the end of its next turn.
Failure or Success: The dragon can’t take this action
again until the start of its next turn.
Pounce. The dragon moves up to half its Speed, and it makes one Rend attack.
AN ANCIENT GREEN DRAGON MANIPULATES THE FATES
OF ITS PAWNS FROM DEEP WITHIN ITS FOREST LAIR
ARTIST: ALEXANDER OSTROWSKI
ANCIENT GREEN DRAGON
AC 21 	Initiative +15 (25)
HP 402 (23d20 + 161)
Speed 40 ft., Fly 80 ft., Swim 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	27 	+8 	+8
DEX 	12 	+1 	+8
CON 	25 	+7 	+7
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	20 	+5 	+5
WIS 	17 	+3 	+10
CHA 	22 	+6 	+6
Gargantuan Dragon (Chromatic), Lawful Evil

-- 34 of 44 --

Green Hag
Foul Witch of the Wicked Wild
Habitat: Forest, Hill, Swamp; Treasure: Arcana
Green hags work bitter magic to foul all that is beautiful and pure. Whether alone or in covens of
other hags, these ancient witches call on eerie forces, spreading corruption and plotting doom for
those who earn their ire. Green hags are adept deceivers, and they use illusions to cloak themselves
in unassuming forms, hoping to tempt innocents into peril. These hags often spirit their victims back
to surreal lairs where they hold captives prisoner or cook them into monstrous meals.
Green hags frequently know strange magic or forgotten secrets, such as the weaknesses of villains,
the locations of lost treasures, or the ways to break curses. They might trade such knowledge for
rare magic or symbolic treasures. Roll on or choose a result from the Green Hag Bargains table to
inspire what a green hag charges for its secrets.
Green Hag Bargains
1d6 	A Green Hag Trades Its Knowledge For...
1 	A bargainer’s memories of a loved one.
2 	The cauldron of a rival hag.
3 	A favor to be redeemed when the hag wishes.
4 	A flower from a hidden Feywild garden.
5 	A gift given freely by a yugoloth.
6 	A vial filled with a ruler’s tears.
Skills Deception +13, Perception +17, Persuasion +13, Stealth +8
Immunities Poison; Poisoned
Senses Blindsight 60 ft., Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 27
Languages Common, Draconic
CR 22 (XP 41,000, or 50,000 in lair; PB +7)
Traits
Amphibious. The dragon can breathe air and water.
Legendary Resistance (4/Day, or 5/Day in Lair). If the dragon fails a saving
throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
Actions
Multiattack. The dragon makes three Rend attacks. It can replace one attack
with a use of Spellcasting to cast
Mind Spike (level 5 version).
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +15, reach 15 ft.
Hit: 17 (2d8 + 8) Slashing damage
plus 10 (3d6) Poison damage.
Poison Breath (Recharge 5–6). Constitution Saving Throw: DC 22, each
creature in a 90-foot Cone.
Failure: 77 (22d6) Poison damage.
Success:
Half damage.
Spellcasting. The dragon casts one of the following spells, requiring no
Material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell
save DC 21):
At Will:
Detect Magic,
Mind Spike (level 5 version)
1/Day Each:
Geas,
Modify Memory
Legendary Actions
Legendary Action Uses: 3 (4 in Lair). Immediately after another creature’s turn,
the dragon can expend a use to take one of the following actions. The dragon
regains all expended uses at the start of each of its turns.
Mind Invasion. The dragon uses Spellcasting to cast
Mind Spike (level
5 version).
Noxious Miasma. Constitution Saving Throw: DC 21, each creature in a 30-
foot-radius Sphere centered on a point the dragon can see within 90 feet.
Failure: 17 (5d6) Poison damage, and the target takes a −2 penalty to AC until
the end of its next turn.
Failure or Success: The dragon can’t take this action
again until the start of its next turn.
Pounce. The dragon moves up to half its Speed, and it makes one Rend attack.
ARTIST: HELGE C. BALZER

-- 35 of 44 --

Grell
Bizarre Hunter That Travels between Worlds
Habitat: Underdark; Treasure: None
With barbed tentacles sprouting from their brain-shaped bodies, grells hunt the lightless depths. These silent predators defy gravity, allowing them to strike
from unexpected places, and they perceive their surroundings via sound and electrical fields. Their tentacles secrete paralytic venom, which prevents most
creatures ambushed by grells from crying out before being dragged into the dark and consumed.
Grells are sapient beings, but their intellects and motivations are alien to most. They typically cooperate with one another only to defeat more powerful prey.
Most demonstrate no interest in creating things or in communicating with other creatures, including their own kind.
Many grells pursue methods of traveling between worlds and planes of existence. They sometimes slip onto star-faring vessels or enter portals heedless of
their destination. Roll on or choose a result from the Grell Explorations table to inspire why grells seek passage between realms.
GREEN HAG
AC 17 	Initiative +1 (11)
HP 82 (11d8 + 33)
Speed 30 ft., Swim 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	18 	+4 	+4
DEX 	12 	+1 	+1
CON 	16 	+3 	+3
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	13 	+1 	+1
WIS 	14 	+2 	+2
CHA 	14 	+2 	+2
Skills Arcana +5, Deception +4, Perception +4, Stealth +3
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 14
Languages Common, Elvish, Sylvan
CR 3 (XP 700; PB +2)
Traits
Amphibious. The hag can breathe air and water.
Coven Magic. While within 30 feet of at least two hag allies, the hag can cast
one of the following spells, requiring no Material components, using the spell’s
normal casting time, and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell
save DC 11):
Augury,
Find Familiar,
Identify,
Locate Object,
Scrying, or
Unseen
Servant. The hag must finish a Long Rest before using this trait to cast that
spell again.
Mimicry. The hag can mimic animal sounds and humanoid voices. A creature
that hears the sounds can tell they are imitations only with a successful DC 14
Wisdom (Insight) check.
Actions
Multiattack. The hag makes two Claw attacks.
Claw. Melee Attack Roll: +6, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) Slashing damage plus 3
(1d6) Poison damage.
Spellcasting. The hag casts one of the following spells, requiring no Material
components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 12,
+4 to hit with spell attacks):
At Will:
Dancing Lights,
Disguise Self (24-hour duration),
Invisibility (self only,
and the hag leaves no tracks while Invisible),
Minor Illusion,
Ray of Sickness
(level 3 version)
Medium Fey, Neutral Evil
ARTIST: DOMENICO CAVA

-- 36 of 44 --

Grell Explorations
1d6 	Grells Travel Because They Are...
1 	Advanced viruses, each the clone of all other grell. They exist only to feed and spread.
2 	The larvae of another creature and require electrically charged environs to reproduce.
3 	Seeking to escape some catastrophe or terror lurking in the depths.
4 	Supernaturally connected to ravenous alien beings and serve as their feeding appendages.
5 	Vestiges of an ancient evil that will return if grells collectively consume enough creatures.
6 	Without souls, but convinced they can attain souls by eating certain beings.
Gricks
Worms That Hunt the Dark and Decaying
Habitat: Forest, Underdark; Treasure: Any
For meal, my hunger grinds within my teeth. For might, my
hunger clenches in my grip. But for what we’re told we mustn’t
know, my hunger snaps a raptor’s beak and makes my mind a
muscle that knows only how to chew.
—EVARD,
EIGHTH EYE OF THE NECROPHILOSOPHER
GRELL
AC 12 	Initiative +6 (16)
HP 55 (10d8 + 10)
Speed 10 ft., Fly 30 ft. (hover)
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	15 	+2 	+2
DEX 	14 	+2 	+2
CON 	13 	+1 	+1
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	12 	+1 	+1
WIS 	11 	+0 	+0
CHA 	9 	−1 	−1
Skills Perception +4, Stealth +6
Immunities Lightning; Blinded, Prone
Senses Blindsight 60 ft.; Passive Perception 14
Languages Deep Speech
CR 3 (XP 700; PB +2)
Traits
Abduct. The grell needn’t spend extra movement to move a creature it
is grappling.
Actions
Multiattack. The grell makes one Beak attack and one Paralyzing
Tentacles attack.
Beak. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 11 (2d8 + 2) Piercing damage.
Paralyzing Tentacles. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 7 (1d10 + 2)
Piercing damage. If the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it has the
Grappled condition (escape DC 12) from two of ten tentacles. The target is
also subjected to the following effect.
Constitution Saving Throw: DC 11.
Failure: The target has the Poisoned condition and repeats the save at the
end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. After
1 minute, it succeeds automatically. While Poisoned, the target has the
Paralyzed condition.
Medium Aberration, Neutral Evil
ARTIST: DOMENICO CAVA

-- 37 of 44 --

Gricks are wormlike predators that burst from hiding—flailing and snapping
—to consume whatever prey passes near. They hide in cavernous crags or
amid deadfalls, the scattered bones and possessions of past meals the only
evidence of their threat.
Gricks’ origins are unclear, but some suggest these creatures arise from
natural worms or similar invertebrates mutated by magical phenomena.
Many cite the presence of gricks in a region as evidence of portals to other
planes of existence, legendary magic items, or powerful supernatural
beings.
Grick
Gricks tend to be solitary hunters, but young gricks might lurk near dozens
of their brood mates for years before gradually drifting apart.
Grick Ancient
Gricks can live for centuries, with the eldest growing to monstrous sizes. Grick ancients actively hunt more than they wait in ambush, and they have no
qualms about devouring smaller gricks.
GRICK
AC 14 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 54 (12d8)
Speed 30 ft., Climb 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	14 	+2 	+2
DEX 	14 	+2 	+2
CON 	11 	+0 	+0
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	3 	−4 	−4
WIS 	14 	+2 	+2
CHA 	5 	−3 	−3
Skills Stealth +4
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 12
Languages None
CR 2 (XP 450; PB +2)
Actions
Multiattack. The grick makes one Beak attack and one Tentacles attack.
Beak. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 9 (2d6 + 2) Piercing damage.
Tentacles. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 7 (1d10 + 2) Slashing damage.
If the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it has the Grappled condition
(escape DC 12) from all four tentacles.
Medium Aberration, Unaligned
GRICK ANCIENT
AC 18 	Initiative +3 (13)
HP 135 (18d10 + 36)
Speed 30 ft., Climb 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	18 	+4 	+4
DEX 	16 	+3 	+3
CON 	15 	+2 	+2
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	4 	−3 	−3
WIS 	14 	+2 	+2
CHA 	9 	−1 	−1
Skills Stealth +6
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 12
Languages None
CR 7 (XP 2,900; PB +3)
Actions
Multiattack. The grick makes one Beak attack, one Slam attack, and one
Tentacles attack.
Beak. Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 22 (4d8 + 4) Piercing damage.
Slam. Melee Attack Roll: + 7, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) Bludgeoning damage.
If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it has the Prone condition.
Tentacles. Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 15 (2d10 + 4) Slashing
damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it has the Grappled
condition (escape DC 14) from all four tentacles.
Large Aberration, Unaligned

-- 38 of 44 --

Griffon
Majestic Hunter of Land and Sky
Habitat: Arctic, Coastal, Grassland, Hill, Mountain; Treasure: None
Griffons combine the features of raptors and big cats—most commonly eagles and lions—and possess the precision and ferocity of such predators. Rarer
breeds of griffons have the features of condors and panthers, while others resemble hawks and tigers. Regardless of their appearances, griffons are often
associated with royalty and are widely called the Masters of Animals.
Countless tales surround griffons. Roll on or choose a result from the Griffon Tales table to inspire stories about them.
Griffon Tales
1d6 	Legends Claim That Griffons...
1 	Attack anything in the skies near their lairs.
2 	Curse their killers. Those who slay a griffon face the enmity of all animals.
3 	Lay eggs with remarkable healing properties.
4 	Prefer the taste of horses over all other prey.
5 	Serve the first creature they see after hatching.
6 	Won’t attack those with royal blood.
ARTIST: ADAM REX
People think we flew high over the city to avoid weather vanes
and laundry lines and whatnot. Truth is, if the griffons smelled
how much horse meat trotted just below, folks would have
worse than joy-flying mages and stirges to worry about!
—SILDAR HALLWINTER, RETIRED MEMBER
OF THE WATERDEEP GRIFFON CAVALRY

-- 39 of 44 --

Grimlock
Puppet of the Mind Flayer Menace
Habitat: Underdark; Treasure: Any
Grimlocks are victims of biological manipulation by mind flayers. To create grimlocks, illithids capture Humanoids, expose them to strange forms of
Underdark radiation, and implant new directives into their brains. The process of creating a grimlock rends the creature’s mind such that no semblance of
the individual’s former personality remains.
Grimlocks have shallow depressions rather than eyes. A sixth sense allows grimlocks to perceive their surroundings. Psychic energies from their
transformations linger in grimlocks’ bodies, and they channel these eerie forces into their attacks.
Roll on or choose a result from the Grimlock Tasks table to inspire how grimlocks serve illithids.
Grimlock Tasks
GRIFFON
AC 12 	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 59 (7d10 + 21)
Speed 30 ft., Fly 80 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	18 	+4 	+4
DEX 	15 	+2 	+2
CON 	16 	+3 	+3
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	2 	−4 	−4
WIS 	13 	+1 	+1
CHA 	8 	−1 	−1
Skills Perception +5
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 15
Languages None
CR 2 (XP 450; PB +2)
Actions
Multiattack. The griffon makes two Rend attacks.
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +6, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) Piercing damage. If the
target is a Medium or smaller creature, it has the Grappled condition (escape
DC 14) from both of the griffon’s front claws.
Large Monstrosity, Unaligned
ARTIST: JOHN TEDRICK

-- 40 of 44 --

1d4 	The Grimlock Serves Mind Flayers By...
1 	Carving caves to serve as illithid outposts.
2 	Hiding the threat of mind flayers beneath fake, purposefully crude dwellings.
3 	Pretending to be helpful and luring travelers into false senses of security.
4 	Raiding surface communities and tempting other creatures to pursue it into illithid traps.
Guardian Naga
Enduring Serpentine Lore Keeper
Habitat: Desert, Forest, Planar (Upper Planes); Treasure: Relics
GRIMLOCK
AC 11 	Initiative +1 (11)
HP 11 (2d8 + 2)
Speed 30 ft., Climb 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	16 	+3 	+3
DEX 	12 	+1 	+1
CON 	12 	+1 	+1
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	9 	−1 	−1
WIS 	8 	−1 	−1
CHA 	6 	−2 	−2
Skills Athletics +5, Perception +3, Stealth +5
Senses Blindsight 30 ft.; Passive Perception 13
Languages None
CR 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)
Actions
Bone Cudgel. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) Bludgeoning
damage plus 2 (1d4) Psychic damage.
Medium Aberration, Neutral Evil
We thought we’d discovered a new people living deeper than we
believed possible. The truth was something far worse.
—ALJAYERA, UNDERDARK SEER
ARTIST: ALEJANDRO PACHECO

-- 41 of 44 --

Guardian nagas are immortal, serpentine scholars that possess perfect memories. They collect the histories and lore of those they live among, guarding
cultures’ stories and passing them on to new generations with infallible accuracy. Guardian nagas that outlive their host civilizations might linger in
whatever ruins remain, preserving the civilizations’ stories so their lost people might live on.
Roll on or choose a result from the Guardian Naga Lore table to inspire what a naga knows.
Guardian Naga Lore
1d8 	The Guardian Naga Recalls...
1 	The last words of an ancient sage or leader.
2 	The location of a hidden city or continent.
3 	A magic word, password, or riddle’s answer.
4 	The names of all who have told it stories.
5 	An otherwise forgotten ritual or spell.
6 	Recipes using regional ingredients.
7 	Stories of forgotten gods and local spirits.
8 	The vulnerabilities of a legendary monster.
GUARDIAN NAGA
AC 18 	Initiative +4 (14)
HP 136 (16d10 + 48)
Speed 40 ft., Climb 40 ft., Swim 40 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	19 	+4 	+4
DEX 	18 	+4 	+8
CON 	16 	+3 	+7
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	16 	+3 	+7
WIS 	19 	+4 	+8
CHA 	18 	+4 	+8
Skills Arcana +11, History +11, Religion +11
Immunities Poison; Charmed, Paralyzed, Poisoned, Restrained
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 14
Languages Celestial, Common
CR 10 (XP 5,900; PB +4)
Traits
Celestial Restoration. If the naga dies, it returns to life in 1d6 days and regains
all its Hit Points unless
Dispel Evil and Good is cast on its remains.
Actions
Multiattack. The naga makes two Bite attacks. It can replace any attack with a
use of Poisonous Spittle.
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +8, reach 10 ft.
Hit: 17 (2d12 + 4) Piercing damage plus
22 (4d10) Poison damage.
Poisonous Spittle. Constitution Saving Throw: DC 16, one creature the naga
can see within 60 feet.
Failure: 31 (7d8) Poison damage, and the target has
the Blinded condition until the start of the naga’s next turn.
Success: Half
damage only.
Spellcasting. The naga casts one of the following spells, requiring no Somatic
or Material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell
save DC 16):
At Will:
Thaumaturgy
1/Day Each:
Clairvoyance,
Cure Wounds (level 6 version),
Flame Strike (level 6
version),
Geas,
True Seeing
Large Celestial, Lawful Good
ARTIST: RICCARDO MOSCATELLO

-- 42 of 44 --

Guards
Sentries and Watch Members
Habitat: Any; Treasure: Armaments, Individual
Guards protect people, places, and things, either for pay or from a sense of
duty. They might perform their duties vigilantly or distractedly. Some raise
alarms at the first sign of danger and defend their charges with their lives.
Others flee outright if their compensation doesn’t match the danger they
face.
Guard
Guards are perceptive, but most have little martial training. They might be
bouncers, lookouts, members of a city watch, or other keen-eyed warriors.
Guard Captain
Guard captains often have ample professional experience. They might be accomplished bodyguards, protectors of magic treasures, veteran watch
members, or similar wardens.
To distinguish between Waterdeep’s different groups of
guardians, keep this handy mnemonic in mind: the Guard
guards the walls while the Watch watches all.
—VOLOTHAMP GEDDARM, LEGENDARY EXPLORER
GUARD
AC 16 	Initiative +1 (11)
HP 11 (2d8 + 2)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	13 	+1 	+1
DEX 	12 	+1 	+1
CON 	12 	+1 	+1
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	10 	+0 	+0
WIS 	11 	+0 	+0
CHA 	10 	+0 	+0
Skills Perception +2
Gear Chain Shirt, Shield, Spear
Senses Passive Perception 12
Languages Common
CR 1/8 (XP 25; PB +2)
Actions
Spear. Melee or Ranged Attack Roll: +3, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft.
Hit: 4 (1d6
+ 1) Piercing damage.
Medium or Small Humanoid, Neutral
GUARD CAPTAIN
AC 18 	Initiative +4 (14)
HP 75 (10d8 + 30)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD 	SAVE
STR 	18 	+4 	+4
DEX 	14 	+2 	+2
CON 	16 	+3 	+3
MOD 	SAVE
INT 	12 	+1 	+1
WIS 	14 	+2 	+2
CHA 	13 	+1 	+1
Skills Athletics +6, Perception +4
Gear Breastplate, Javelins (6), Longsword, Shield
Medium or Small Humanoid, Neutral

-- 43 of 44 --

Our Terms of Service and Privacy Notice have recently been updated to provide greater clarity as to how disputes are handled and transparency
regarding the collection and use of personal data. Please review them here: Terms of Service, Privacy Notice. By continuing to use the services, you
agree to the new Terms.
SUPPORT
Help Portal
Support Forum
System Status
Do Not Sell or Share
My Personal
Information
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Notice
System Reference
Document (SRD)
ABOUT
Contact Us
Careers
Wizards of the
Coast
FIND US ON SOCIAL
MEDIA
DOWNLOAD THE D&D BEYOND
APP
© 2017-2026 WIZARDS OF THE COAST LLC | ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
Dungeons & Dragons, D&D Beyond, D&D, Wizards of the Coast, the dragon ampersand, and all other Wizards of the Coast
product names, campaign settings, their respective logos, and The World's Greatest Roleplaying Game are © and trademark
Wizards of the Coast in the U.S.A. and other countries. © 2026 Wizards.
PRIVACY POLICY 	TERMS OF SERVICE
Senses Passive Perception 14
Languages Common
CR 4 (XP 1,100; PB +2)
Actions
Multiattack. The guard makes two attacks, using Javelin or Longsword in
any combination.
Javelin. Melee or Ranged Attack Roll: +6, reach 5 ft. or range 30/120 ft.
Hit: 14
(3d6 + 4) Piercing damage.
Longsword. Melee Attack Roll: +6, reach 5 ft.
Hit: 15 (2d10 + 4)
Slashing damage.

-- 44 of 44 --
